EU Grants: List of participating countries (CERV): V8.0 – 01.02. 2025
List of Participating Countries in the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values
Programme
EFTA countries which are part of the European Economic Area (EEA)
• Iceland will not participate in the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values
Programme
• Norway will not participate in the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values
Programme
• Liechtenstein will not participate in the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values
Programme
Acceding countries, candidate countries and potential candidates
• Albania participates in the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values Programme for
all strands except the Union Values strand (agreement signed on 27 December
2023 – applicable as from 01 January 2023)
• Bosnia and Herzegovina participates in the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values
Programme, for all strands except the Union Values strand (agreement signed
on 21 December 2023 – applicable as from 01 January 2023)
• Kosovo participates in the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values Programme, for
all strands except the Union Values strand (agreement signed on 5 December
2023 – applicable as from 01 January 2023)
• Moldova has expressed interest to participate in the Citizens, Equality, Rights
and Values Programme
• Montenegro participates in the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values
Programme, for all strands except the Union Values strand (agreement signed
on 3 October 2024 – applicable as from 01 January 2024)
• North Macedonia has expressed interest to participate in the Citizens, Equality,
Rights and Values programme
• Serbia participates in the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values Programme, for
all strands except the Union Values strand (agreement signed on 24 November
2023 – applicable as from 01 January 2023)
• Ukraine participates in the Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values Programme for
all strands except the Union Values strand (agreement signed on 9 January
2024 – applicable as from 01 January 2023)
European Neighbourhood Policy countries
• Currently, no country has confirmed interest to join the Citizens, Equality,
Rights and Values Programme
Other countries
• Currently, no country has confirmed interest to join the Citizens, Equality,
Rights and Values Programme
Please note that entities subject to EU restrictive measures under Article 29 of the Treaty onEU Grants: List of participating countries (CERV): V8.0 – 01.02. 2025
the European Union (TEU) and Article 215 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (TFEU)1 and
entities covered by Commission Guidelines No 2013/C 205/052 are NOT eligible to participate in
any capacity (including as beneficiaries, affiliated entities, associated partners, third parties giving
in-kind contributions, subcontractors or recipients of financial support to third parties, if any).
HISTORY OF CHANGES
VERSION PUBLICATION CHANGE
DATE
1.0 15.06.2021 Initial version (new MFF). No participating countries.
2.0 15.10.2021 Interest expressed for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia,
Kosovo and Ukraine (countries added).
3.0 01.12.2021 Names of countries interested removed (as the joining
process is not sufficiently advanced).
4.0 15.12.2022 Interest confirmed for the following countries: Albania,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Serbia, Montenegro,
Ukraine.
5.0 15.12.2023 Interest expressed for the following countries: Moldova,
North Macedonia.
Association Agreement has now started to produce legal
effect with Serbia.
6.0 15.01.2024 Association Agreement has now started to produce legal
effect with Kosovo and with Bosnia and Herzegovina.
7.0 01.07.2024 Association Agreement has now started to produce legal
effect with Albania and with Ukraine, and has now
entered into force with Kosovo.
8.0 01.02.2025 Association Agreement has now entered into force and
started to produce legal effect with Montenegro.
1 Please note that the EU Official Journal contains the official list and, in case of conflict, its content prevails
over that of the EU Sanctions Map.
2 Commission guidelines No 2013/C 205/05 on the eligibility of Israeli entities and their activities in the
territories occupied by Israel since June 1967 for grants, prizes and financial instruments funded by the EU
from 2014 onwards (OJEU C 205 of 19.07.2013, pp. 9-11).Oxfam Employee Code of Conduct
This Code is subject to relevant international human
Oxfam’s Joint Code of Conduct rights law, wherever the employee is employed and
shall be read in a manner that is compliant with that
As one ‘Oxfam’* we are a strategic network of law.
organizations working together internationally to find
‘Oxfam’* means any Oxfam Affiliate and/or Oxfam International
lasting solutions to poverty and injustice. We share a
throughout the world.
common vision, common philosophies and, to a large
extent, common working practices. We all have the
Code of Conduct: Standards and Values
same brand values, the same passion and
commitment. We have joined forces as an As an Oxfam employee, I will:
international confederation because we believe we
1. Uphold the integrity and reputation of Oxfam
will achieve greater impact by working together in
by ensuring that my professional and personal
collaboration with others.
conduct is demonstrably consistent with Oxfam’s
Together we are working towards a world in which values and standards.
people can live with dignity, have their basic needs
I will seek to maintain and enhance public confidence
met and their basic rights respected, and have the
in Oxfam by being accountable for the professional
ability to control their own lives.
and personal actions I take and ensuring that I
As we work to achieve our ambition and vision of ‘a manage the power that comes with my Oxfam
just world without poverty’ we should always remain position with appropriate restraint.
true to our core mission, aims and values. This Code
Whilst observing the requirements of the Code of
of Conduct will help you live by them by providing
Conduct, I will also be sensitive to, and respectful of,
guidance in the face of ethical dilemmas you may
local customs and culture, even if the norms and
experience. It shows you what to do when a situation
values in that cultural context differ from the Code of
is complex by providing standards and values for you
Conduct. I will if necessary seek (and will receive)
to follow and how to protect against situations that
support and advice from Oxfam.
may damage you or Oxfam. It also seeks to ensure
that employees avoid using possible unequal power I will not work under the influence of alcohol or use,
relationships for their own benefit. or be in possession of, illegal substances on Oxfam
premises, vehicles or accommodation.
The rules and guidelines contained in this Code of
2. Treat all people with respect and dignity and
Conduct, together with your employing affiliate’s
challenge any form of harassment,
policies and procedures and the terms and conditions
discrimination, intimidation, exploitation or
of your employment (as outlined in your employment
abuse.
contract or your collective agreement if applicable),
provides a framework within which all Oxfam Oxfam staff hold a privileged position of power and
employees, regardless of location, undertake to trust in relation to our partners and the communities
discharge their duties and to regulate their conduct. that we come from and serve. When carrying out
They also support Oxfam in our role in implementing, Oxfam’s mission I understand that it is important not
monitoring and enforcing these standards. to abuse my own position of power/unequal power
relationships in any way.
The Code does not exempt anyone and in
Recognising my role in Oxfam’s mission to challenge
accordance with relevant employing affiliate’s policies
and procedures, any breach may result in disciplinary injustice and poverty, I will respect all peoples’ rights,
including children’s rights, and I will contribute to a
action (including dismissal in some instances), and in
working environment characterised by mutual
some cases, could lead to criminal prosecution.
respect, integrity, dignity and non-discrimination.
In accepting your appointment, you undertake to
I will ensure that my relationships and behaviour are
discharge your duties and to regulate your conduct in
not exploitative, abusive or corrupt in any way, and I
accordance with the requirements of this Code, will not engage in any form of sexual abuse or
thereby contributing to Oxfam’s quality of
exploitation of any persons of any age.
performance and reputation. The code describes
what Oxfam expects from its employees and what the In line with international standards I will not have
employees can expect from Oxfam. sexual relations with children (defined as under 18
years old) or with beneficiaries (in exchange for
Whilst recognising that local laws and cultures differ
assistance or any other reason) recognising the
considerably from one country to another, Oxfam is
inherent unequal power dynamics involved, and that
an International Non-Governmental Organisation such behaviours can undermine the integrity and
(INGO) and therefore the Code of Conduct is
credibility of Oxfam's work;
developed from International and UN standards.
I will also not exchange money, offers of
employment, employment, goods or services for sex
Oxfam Employee Code of Conduct October 2017 1Oxfam Employee Code of Conduct
or sexual favours, nor any other forms of humiliating, I will undertake and act on appropriate risk
degrading or exploitative behaviour, understanding assessments.
that these standards exist to challenge sexually
I will comply with local security management
exploitative and abusive behaviour.
guidelines and be pro-active in informing
I will use my best endeavours to report any such management of any necessary changes to such
behaviours or malpractice in the workplace by others guidelines.
to my line management or through recognised
I will behave in such a way as to avoid any
confidential reporting systems.
unnecessary risk to the safety, health and welfare of
3. Perform my duties and conduct my private life myself and others, including partner organizations
in a manner that avoids possible conflicts of and beneficiaries.
interest with the work of Oxfam.
6. Promote human rights, protect the
I will declare any financial, personal, family (or close environment and oppose criminal or unethical
intimate relationship) interest in matters of official activities.
business which may impact on the work of Oxfam
I will ensure that my conduct is consistent with the
(e.g. contract for goods/services, employment or
human rights framework to which Oxfam subscribes.
promotion within Oxfam, partner organizations,
beneficiary groups). I will use my best endeavours to protect the natural
environment and work in a sustainable way.
I will advise Oxfam of any intention to seek a
nomination as a prospective candidate or another I will contribute to preventing all forms of criminal or
official role for any political party or public office to unethical activities.
clarify whether any conflict, or perceived conflicts,
I will inform Oxfam of any relevant criminal
with my duties with Oxfam may arise.
convictions or charges I have had prior to my
Even when the giving and acceptance of gifts is employment in which Oxfam may have a legitimate
normal cultural practice I will reject monetary gifts or interest.
inappropriate gifts from governments, beneficiaries,
I will also notify Oxfam if I face any criminal charges
donors, suppliers and other persons, which have
during my employment that may impede my ability to
been offered to me as a result of my employment
perform the duties of my position subject to national
with Oxfam. Where the giving and acceptance of gifts
legislation.
is normal cultural practice, I will ensure that such gifts
are within the limits of reasonable judgements and in I will adhere to following global policies and
accordance with procurement policies and I will procedures (see list below) that support the above
report gifts to the line management and where Standards:
appropriate hand them onto Oxfam.
Child Protection Policy
I will assure that assistance by Oxfam is not provided Security Policy and Local Security Guidelines
in return of any service or favour from others. Disciplinary Procedures Policy
Anti-Bullying and Harassment Policy
I will act against any form of corruption and not offer,
Sexual Diversity and Gender Identity Rights Policy
promise, give or accept any bribes.
Oxfam Health and Safety protocol
4. Be responsible for the use of information, Oxfam Policy on whistle blowing and complaints
equipment, money and resources to which I have
access by reason of my employment with Oxfam. Ask your HR department for additional relevant policies at
affiliate level.
I will use my discretion when handling sensitive or
confidential information.
In accepting my appointment, I undertake to
I will seek authorization before communicating discharge my duties and to regulate my conduct in
externally in Oxfam’s name and will avoid any accordance with the requirements of this Code
unintended detrimental repercussions for me or thereby contributing to Oxfam’s quality of
Oxfam. performance and reputation.
I will appropriately account for all Oxfam money and
property, (e.g. vehicles, office equipment, Oxfam- Name………………………………………............
provided accommodation, computers including the
use of internet, email and intranet).
Signature…………………………………………...
5. Protect the health, safety, security and welfare
of all Oxfam employees, volunteers and
Date…………………
contractors.
………………………………
Oxfam Employee Code of Conduct October 2017 2