Diversity, Equity, Inclusion (DEI) Guidelines
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) is built into the foundation of DigiQ, with the guiding
principle that students & researchers should be recruited & retained based on their
intrinsic qualities: talent, passion and dedication. Their diversity should broadly reflect
the diversity of the underlying population. If not, this indicates that extrinsic factors (bias,
systemic effects, etc.) are at play that limit opportunity for certain groups of talented,
passionate, dedicated people. This is ethically wrong for those people, and negatively
affects the entire community and scientific enterprise by limiting the talent pool.
All groups involved in DigiQ: students, supervisors, researchers, mentors, speakers,
committee members, etc. - should broadly reflect the diversity of the European
community, across all main relevant axes. In particular, but not limited to, personal
identifies such as gender, nationality/culture, race/ethnicity, (dis)capacity, sexuality, age,
socio-economic factors, etc.; and professional qualities and experience - i.e. we should
include people from different fields of expertise, with experience in a range of sectors,
etc.
We present our DEI guidelines for the project partners to follow, wherever relevant.
1. All organisational bodies should actively seek to reflect the broad diversity of the
population; in particular, aim to have equal gender representation (e.g. at least
40% men, 40% women, and 20% of any gender); involve people of different
cultures/nationalities; different professional and disciplinary expertise, etc. This
applies to all organizational bodies, including DigiQ managing bodies, selection
committees, organizing committees for events etc.
2. All communication should be respectful and inclusive, and reflect the diversity of
the underlying population we want to attract into the field (men, women, different
cultures & nationalities, accessibility) etc. This applies equally to written
1communication (particularly in e.g. calls) and visual images - e.g. using “workforce”
instead of “manpower”. We have prepared a guide for inclusive communication,
which can be found on DigiQ’s website.
3. Appropriate communication channels for reporting inappropriate behaviour in
DigiQ actions/events, and for support and advice to students, should be
established (with the help of the DEI commissioner).
4. All organizational bodies and hiring committees should follow our guidelines for
best practices in selection & recruitment, and supervision, covering key topics for
inclusion & equity (e.g. unconscious bias), with access to training materials where
appropriate.
5. Make dialogue possible with students about their individual needs and keep a
flexible and open approach to each student.
6. Be aware that students from underrepresented minority groups might have more
difficulties with international mobility. Rather than creating equal requirements
for all students, consider each student’s background when assessing their
applications. In this context, think of the student’s ‘potential’ rather than only the
already existing skillset.
7. 20% of student travel grants/stipends should be set aside for promoting
opportunities for under-represented groups (women, students with limited access
to digital skills, etc.).
8. All DigiQ networks should include DEI training (e.g. Science Melting Pot’s module
or equivalent). The training and awareness will include takeaways in the form of
guidelines and recommended actions that will empower students and supervisors
to be aware of different kinds of discrimination and biases that might exist, and
how to act on them. Attendance should be mandatory wherever possible.
9. Where possible, all partners/hosts should provide access to facilities to support &
encourage the participation of all people, e.g. access to childcare, awareness of
accessibility, etc.
2Inclusive Communication Guidelines
OBJECTIVE
The primary objective of our inclusive communication guidelines is to ensure inclusive
language and broad appeal of DigiQ's communication efforts across diverse segments.
Inclusive language is the words and phrases that we use to avoid biases, slang, and
expressions that discriminate against groups of people based on race, gender,
socioeconomic status, and ability. These guidelines build upon established principles of
inclusivity and draw inspiration from initiatives undertaken by the European Parliament1.
RATIONALE
When individuals do not see themselves reflected in our communication endeavours,
they may perceive that our messaging is not meant for them. Therefore, it is crucial that
we make a conscious effort to inclusively represent the entire range of the population in
all DigiQ activities and campaigns, challenging preconceived notions tied to gender and
other dimensions of diversity. We aspire to create an environment where everyone feels
valued and included so that we resonate with more audiences by speaking and writing in
ways that everyone understands and makes everyone feel welcome.
SCOPE
These guidelines seek to provide DigiQ partners with a comprehensive understanding of
inclusive communication, its purpose, functions, and guiding principles. It is essential for
DigiQ partners to fully engage with and comprehend the significance of mainstreaming
equality and diversity into communication outputs. While these guidelines apply to all
communication tasks undertaken by DigiQ (e.g., presentations, posters, flyers), it should
be noted that human resources-related inclusion issues, such as selection, recruitment,
1 European Parliament Inclusive Communication Guidelines:
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/contracts-and-grants/files/grants/media-and-events/en-annex-9-
inclusive-communication-guidelines-of-the-european-parliament.pdf
1promotion, and work-life balance, fall outside the scope of this document. Separate
guidelines addressing these aspects have been provided by DigiQ.
IMPLEMENTATION
DigiQ partners are expected to diligently apply these guidelines in their work and
activities, ensuring their incorporation becomes an ongoing practice. To facilitate ease of
reference and enable partners to benchmark their practices, specific lists have been
included within this document, covering various areas of DigiQ's activities. By consistently
adhering to these guidelines, we can cultivate a culture of inclusive communication that
reflects the diversity of our audience and reinforces the values we uphold.
GUIDELINES
INCLUSIVE VISUALS
When making decisions regarding images and design, apply our visual communication
guidelines to ensure coherence with DigiQ’s identity.
● Choose images of diverse people in terms of gender, disability, age and ethnicity,
ensuring diverse groups feel visually represented.
● People should be depicted in their everyday environment and in natural poses.
● Avoid using an image showing only women or only men if the group addressed or
referred to is mixed.
● Show women and men, and people of different origins in roles and functions of
equal value.
● Favour pictures of active behaviour (speaking, shaking hands, walking, writing…).
● Challenge gender stereotypes in images. This could mean choosing a woman to
illustrate a topic traditionally considered male, e.g. technology or science.
Inversely, choose a man to illustrate a subject traditionally considered female, e.g.
family care, human resources management, household-related tasks, etc.
● Images of persons with a disability should aim neither to hide a visible disability
nor over-emphasise it. Persons with a disability should be portrayed as able-bodied
persons, in a setting where they have equal value.
2Checklist of useful questions to ask when making the final choice of pictures:
● Who is in the picture? Choose images of people that are diverse in terms of gender,
disability, age and ethnicity, ensuring diverse groups feel visually represented.
● What are the apparent power relations between them? This can be expressed
through their physical positions or postures, their facial expression, their clothing,
etc.
● What are the possible underlying messages that could be interpreted from this
image (ask several people for their opinion, since this can vary enormously)?
● Does it correspond to the message we want to get across?
● If any of the questions above make you doubt the picture’s suitability, choose
another one.
When working with collaborators, ensure they are also aware of these guidelines.
INCLUSIVE LANGUAGE
Inclusive visuals need to be reinforced with inclusive language. Societal perceptions and
media portrayal can feed into gender stereotypes, not only through imagery and
narratives but also through language. Gendered language is so common that it can be
difficult for many to even notice it. Language powerfully reflects and influences attitudes,
behaviour and perceptions, thus using gender-fair and inclusive language can help to
reduce gender stereotyping, promote social change and contribute to achieving gender
equality.
The same principles should be applied when we speak about vulnerable or disadvantaged
groups and our choice of words when describing controversial topics such as migration
and refugees. It is important to be respectful and to use neutral language when referring
to these groups.
Apply these tips for gender-neutral and inclusive language. Gender-inclusive language is
a way of speaking and writing that avoids using gender-specific terms and aims to be more
inclusive of all genders:
● Use “workforce” instead of manpower.
● Use “chair”, or “chairperson” instead of “chairman”.
3● Use “colleagues,” “team,” or “people” instead of “ladies and gentlemen” or “guys
and girls”.
● Use “parental leave” instead of “maternity leave” and “paternity leave”.
● Use digital tools like Gender Decoder to check gender-neutrality in job ads.
Apply these tips when referring to persons with disabilities:
● Use person-first language: a person with a disability (instead of “disabled person”).
● Emphasize each person’s individuality and capabilities rather than defining them
by a condition. Avoid phrases like ‘suffers from’ and passive ‘victim’ words.
● Avoid terms that define the disability as a limitation.
● Do not use collective nouns such as ‘the deaf’ as these groups are not
homogeneous.
● Remember that a large majority of disabilities are invisible.
DIGITAL ACCESSIBILITY
When creating new web products and maintaining existing ones, use this list of guidelines
and incorporate it wherever possible and applicable. These guidelines draw inspiration
from the guidelines undertaken by the UK Government 2.
● Provide alternative text on pictures in digital content, both on websites and on
main social media platforms.
● Include alternative text on images that contain information and subtitles on
videos.
● Use Camel Case (capitalize the first letter of every word) for hashtags as far as
possible.
● Use tools like WebAIM to ensure web accessibility.
● For people with Autism Spectrum Disorder, use:
○ WebAIM’s contrast checker tool (avoid bright contrasting colours)
○ Plain language (avoid figures of speech)
○ Bullet points and simple sentences (avoid a wall of text)
○ Descriptive buttons, f.eg. ‘Attach file’
○ Simple and consistent layouts
● For people with a visual disability, use:
2 Accessibility in UK Government: https://accessibility.blog.gov.uk/2016/09/02/dos-and-donts-on-
designing-for-accessibility/
4○ Readable font sizes
○ A clear map of where to find information
○ Simple and logical layout
○ Descriptive buttons
○ Use accessible colour palettes3: blue-orange is a common colour-blind-
friendly palette and can be used together for data visualization. Avoid red
and green together as that can be problematic.
● For people with dyslexia:
○ Support text with visual aids.
○ Use fonts like OpenDyslexic.
○ Align text with left alignment and keep a consistent layout (avoid too much
bold, italics or capitalized text).
○ Provide audio formats next to textual formats where possible.
○ Keep content clear and simple.
○ Make it possible to change the contrast between the background and text,
wherever possible.
● For people with physical or motorial disabilities:
○ Make large, clickable buttons.
○ Provide space between information/action blocks.
○ Provide speech-online use.
○ Calculate enough time for filling in forms or doing actions.
● For people with hearing problems:
○ Use plain language (avoid figures of speech).
○ Provide subtitles in videos.
○ Make sure that content is not based on hearing only.
○ Use a clear and logical layout.
An example of digital accessibility following some of these guidelines is www.esero.dk.
You can test the web accessibility of your website at WebAIM.
3 Tableau: https://www.tableau.com/en-gb/blog/examining-data-viz-rules-dont-use-red-green-
together#:~:text=For%20example%2C%20blue%2Forange%20is,blue%20to%20someone%20with%20C
VD
5Selection Guidelines
OBJECTIVE
The principal aim of our Selection Guidelines is to strive to support underrepresented
groups and achieve a balanced gender distribution of master students locally and
within the DigiQ networks.
As found by Eurostat1, across the EU, only 20% of students studying for a physics
degree in 2018 at the tertiary level were female, a percentage that has remained
essentially static over the previous 5 years2. Gender disparities persist in quantum
science and technology, with women being underrepresented in research and
leadership positions, and technical roles due to bias and systemic effects3. This impacts
the quantum science and technology community by constraining the talent pool.
Therefore, actionable steps need to be taken to mitigate extrinsic factors such as bias
and systemic effects that may hinder opportunities for talented individuals.
Additionally, we aim to provide support for underrepresented groups through
dedicated mobility funds for internships and participating in events. To put this into
action, it is stated in the DigiQ Grant Agreement that 20% of student travel grants
should be set aside for promoting opportunities for under-represented groups.
SCOPE
These guidelines apply to activities in the DigiQ project. They are not designed to
replace or supersede policies and procedures in place at each of the partners, which
take precedence. Where local guidelines are not already in place or sufficient to
address the topics included in this document, we encourage partners to consider
drafting and/or updating policies & procedures where possible.
1 Eurostat is the statistical office of the European Union, responsible for publishing high-quality Europe-wide
statistics and indicators that enable comparisons between countries and regions.
2 Harrington, R. E., et al. (2022). Participation, performance, and outcomes in an undergraduate physics
degree: Perspectives on gender and socioeconomic factors. Phys. Rev. Phys. Educ. Res., 18(1), 010114.
https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevPhysEducRes.18.010114
3 Quantum Flagship, EDI Working Group Survey (2021)These guidelines apply to selection procedures for DigiQ actions carried out through
central calls managed by the corresponding selection panel and/or work package
leaders, and to actions where the selection process is carried out locally by one or
more partners. These include:
● Selection of students for DigiQ networks.
● Selection of students for internships and/or exchange, and to receive mobility
funding for these actions.
● Assignment of mobility funding to support student participation in network
activities.
While strictly out of scope, we also encourage partners to consider these guidelines in
selecting students entering the master's programs participating in the DigiQ program.
GENERAL GUIDELINES
This segment pertains to the selection of master's students within the local context. In
addition to following local student selection criteria, we recommend DigiQ project
partners to align with the European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for
the Recruitment of Researchers. Presented below are condensed selection guidelines
derived from the charter to ensure their applicability in the selection procedures for
DigiQ students.
● Judging merit: The selection process should take into consideration the whole
range of experience of the candidates, relative to their experience and the
opportunities that they have enjoyed. While focusing on their overall potential
as students, their creativity and level of independence should also be
considered. This means that merit should be judged quantitatively (e.g.
minimum scientific threshold, exam grades etc.) and qualitatively, focusing on
a diversified career path. Keep in mind a wider range of evaluation criteria, such
as (i) teaching, (ii) supervision, (iii) teamwork, (iv) knowledge transfer, (v)
management of research and innovation, (vi) volunteering, (vii)
entrepreneurship activities, (viii) development of teaching/learning material
and (ix) public awareness activities. For candidates from an industrial
background, particular attention should be paid to any contributions to patents,
development or inventions.
● Variations in the chronological order of CVs: Career breaks, changes of fields,
parental leave, caregiving (e.g. childcare, disability care etc.) responsibility, and
breaks (or variations) in the chronological order of CVs should not be penalised.
For instance, the German Research Foundation offers women a two-year
extension on application deadlines after completing their doctorate for eachchild they have4. As a result, women effectively lose two years of experience
per child. Consequently, rather than being penalised, this adjustment should be
viewed as a natural progression in their career. Candidates who have
extenuating circumstances that may explain gaps in the academic career or
other potentially negatively evaluated aspects of their application should be
able to volunteer and send extra information via a separate form, such as the
one outlined by DFG (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft/German Research
Foundation)5. Such information may include details of childcare leave, family
obligations, severe illness, neurodevelopment disorder (e.g. ADHD, ASD etc.),
disability, the refugee situation, etc. If the selection panel decides to shortlist a
candidate based in part on such extenuating circumstances, it may require the
candidate to provide reasonable supporting documentation, which will be kept
confidential under their consent.
● Recognition of mobility experience: Any mobility experience, e.g. a stay in
another country/region or another research setting (public or private) or a
change from one discipline or sector to another, whether as part of any initial
research training, or virtual mobility experience, should be considered as a
valuable contribution to the professional development of a student. Students
from underrepresented minority groups might have more difficulties with
international mobility6. Rather than creating equal requirements for all
students, consider each student’s background when assessing their
applications.
MOBILITY GUIDELINES
In situations where Mobility Committees or similar official bodies are involved in the
process of selecting students for participating in the DigiQ internship and exchange
program as well as in network activities, we recommend following our guidelines. They
encompass structure, gender representation, delineation of responsibilities and roles
among mobility committee members, inclusive of decision-making protocols,
communication procedures, and avenues for appeals.
● The Mobility Committees must proactively and consistently strive to promote
equal gender representation by actively encouraging participation from
students of underrepresented genders. This entails ensuring a balanced
demographic, with, for instance, at least 40% identifying as men, 40%
identifying as women, and 20% representing any gender. This effort includes
4 Guidelines: Emmy Noether Programme
5 DFG: Proposal and Funding Process- FAQ
6 Malik, M., et al. (2022). Quantum researcher mobility: The wonderful wizard of Oz who paid for Dorothy's
visa fees. Quantum Science and Technology, 7, 034005. https://doi.org/10.1088/2058-9565/ac77b3advertising mobility opportunities on platforms that cater specifically to
students facing gender disparities, as well as those encountering challenges
such as disadvantages, career transitions, parental leave, caregiving
responsibilities (such as child or disability care), and deviations from traditional
career trajectories reflected in CVs.
● The mobility committee should comprise members from diverse backgrounds,
mobility experiences, and perspectives to promote a broad range of viewpoints
and minimise bias. Involve people of different cultures/nationalities and
different professional and disciplinary expertise.
● All members of mobility committees should have equal voting/grading rights.
● Ensure that members are familiar with local policies and recognition of
academic achievements from other institutions, conflict of interest, and
discrimination.
● Designate an experienced chair who can lead the committee effectively and
foster cooperation among members.
● Use physical or digital tools to document proceedings thoroughly during
discussions, interviews, and deliberations to ensure accuracy and transparency.
● Thoroughly report to the DigiQ Executive Board on practices to assign mobility
funding and incorporation of DEI guidelines.
NETWORK GUIDELINES
DigiQ networks prioritize achieving gender balance. As such, students will be assigned
networks considering both their preferences and the goal of gender balance. During
sign-up, students will be asked to share their gender information, with the option to
decline if they prefer.
USEFUL RESOURCES
We recommend our partners go through the following resources for awareness about
unconscious biases during recruitment and selection:
● Tutorial Recruitment Bias in Research Institutes (CERCA, the Agency for the
Research Centres of Catalonia): Video
● Making decisions in groups: (The Royal Society): Video
● Understanding Unconscious Bias (The Royal Society): Video
● Digital tools to reveal hidden gender-coded words:
○ Totaljobs Gender Bias Decoder: Web-based tool
○ Gender Decoder: Web-based tool