European Parliament
Directorate-GeneralforLogisticsand Interpretation forConferences
The Director-General
I [o2]02s
0(2025) 2517 Brussels,
DECISION OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL FOR LOGISTICS AND INTERPRETATION
FOR CONFERENCES OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT
ON THE ADOPTION OF THE 2025 ANNUAL WORK PROGRAMME ON
FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR TRAINING IN CONFERENCE INTERPRETING
THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF LOGISTICS AND INTERPRETATION FOR CONFERENCES,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning ofthe European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 ofthe European Parliamentand ofthe
Council of 23 September 2024 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget ofthe
Union, and in particularArticles 58(2)(e), 110(1), 184 and 192 thereof;
Having regard to the Internal Rules on the Implementation of the European Parliament's
Budget, Bureau decision of 20 January 2025;
Having regard to the Code of Conduct on Multilingualism, adopted by the Bureau on 1 July
2019, and in particular to article 1 thereof, which enshrines the principle of'resource efficient
full multilingualism'.
Whereas:
(1) Grantsshall be subjectto awork programmeto be published priorto its implementation;
(2) The annual work programme for grants shall be adopted by the Director-General for
Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences, and shall specify the basic act, ifany, the
objectives, the indicative schedule ofcalls for proposals with the indicative amount and
the results expected;
(3) This Decision should allow forthe payment of interest due for late payment;
(4) Thetopics underthe presentwork programme derive from the operational needs ofthe
European Parliament, in the context of its administrative autonomy, as provided for in
Article 58(2)(e) ofthe Financial Regulation.
- 1 -HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS:
Article 1 - Adoption ofthe work programme
The 2025 work programme providing financial supportfortraining in conference interpreting,
as set out in the Annex, is adopted.
Article 2 - Contribution
The indicative budget for the 2025 work programme is EUR 734.000 (budget line 3245-04).
These appropriations shall also cover interest due for late payment.
Article 3 - Entry into force
This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
Juan Carlos JIMÉNEZ MARiN
Annex
- 2 -Geda D(2025) 2517
01/2025
Annex I to the Decision of the Director-General for Logistics and Interpretation
for Conferences of the European Parliament on the adoption of the 2025 work
programme on financial support for training in conference interpreting
Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences
2025 work programme on financial support for training in
conference interpreting
1. BUDGET LINE
3245-04 Organisation of seminars, symposia and cultural activities1
2. BASIC ACT
The activities covered in this work programme derive from the operational needs of the
European Parliament, in the context of its administrative autonomy, as provided for in Article
58(2)(e), 110 (1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 of the European Parliament and the
Council of 23 September 2024 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the
Union.
3. PERIOD COVERED
The work programme covers the 2025-2026 academic year.
4. DESCRIPTION OF THE MEASURES FINANCED UNDER THE BUDGET LINE
The European Parliament provides interpretation for the meetings it organises to comply with
its legal obligations with regard to multilingualism, as laid down in Article 342 of the Treaty on
the European Union, Council Regulation 1/58, and in the Code of Conduct on Multilingualism.
Additionally, the European Parliament is increasingly providing interpretation for other EU
bodies, both in official and non-official EU languages, according to the political needs of the
different institutions and bodies served by Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation
for Conferences.
To ensure the availability of a sufficient number of qualified conference interpreters,
Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences supports and assists in
strengthening training programmes by providing professional and financial assistance. The
aim of these activities is to help produce new generations of qualified conference interpreters
who may, subsequently, be recruited by the EU institutions, and in particular by the European
Parliament, as officials or as accredited conference interpreting agents.
1
This appropriation is intended to cover, inter alia, conference management and multilingualism support measures
and tools such as seminars and conferences, meetings with providers of training for interpreters (or translators),
measures and topics to raise awareness of multilingualism and the profession of interpreter (or translator), including
a programme of grants for universities, schools and other organisations offering interpreting (or translation) courses,
virtual communication solutions, as well as participation in similar topics and measures organised jointly with other
services in the context of inter-institutional and international cooperation.
1In accordance with the Financial Regulation (cf. Art. 110 and 192 of the Financial Regulation),
a work programme for grants is prepared and adopted. The financial support is offered as
grants to universities and similar bodies.
5. MOBILISATION OF AVAILABLE APPROPRIATIONS
The European Parliament intends to part-finance topics aimed at improving the professional
quality of interpreter training. The indicative budget available 2025 programme is EUR
734.000. These appropriations may also finance the payment of default interest in accordance
with Article 116 (5) of the Financial Regulation.
6. PROGRAMME OF GRANTS TO UNIVERSITIES AND SIMILAR BODIES
6.1. Calls for proposals
(a) An annual call for proposals is published on the internet site of the European Parliament
and the EC Funding and Tender Portal.
(b) Indicative schedule (subject to modifications) for the call for proposals is as follows:
• March - April: Launch of the call for proposals;
• May: Closing date for the submission of applications;
• June - July: Meeting of the Evaluation Committee;
• July - October: Final award decision and conclusion of grant agreements.
6.2. Objectives of the programme of grants to universities
As a provider of interpretation services in the European Parliament, and increasingly to other
EU institutions and bodies, the mission of the Directorate-General for Logistics and
Interpretation for Conferences is to ensure that a sufficient number of qualified conference
interpreters are available to enable the EU institutions and bodies to function properly in a
context of linguistic diversity including at regular events, all over the world, where wide
language cover is required.
Under the principle of subsidiarity, Member States have the obligation to provide the necessary
training. The European Parliament identifies the language combinations and skills that best
match its needs, and assists universities in training high quality conference interpreters within
these priority combinations.
The programme contributes to this mission by supporting the following topics in the field of
interpretation:
• The promotion of quality and linguistic diversity in the teaching of conference
interpreting in the official languages of the EU, of the candidate countries, and of the
countries which are the main political partners of the Union;
• The establishment of postgraduate centres of excellence;
• Cooperation among postgraduate courses from different European, candidate and third
countries offering relevant language combinations;
• Regional cooperation among universities with complementary language regimes; and
• Integration of modern information and communication technologies in the training of
conference interpreters.
26.3. Eligible applicants
• Higher Education Institutions, Universities, university institutes, consortia and
associations of universities or institutes, which offer or coordinate postgraduate
courses specialising in conference interpreting.
• Associations, consortia and bodies, whose main mission is to support cooperation and
disseminate best practices in the field of worldwide conference interpreter training.
• For Topic 3: only Higher-Education Institutions, Universities, university institutes,
consortia and associations of universities or institutes - high-quality master, post-
graduate courses or bachelor courses by Ukrainian universities with conference
interpreting components - registered in Ukraine.
Teaching establishments must be approved by their national authorities as public or private
bodies charged with a public task of teaching and organising courses at master or
postgraduate level in the field of conference interpreting. If the applicant is not a teaching
establishment, its mission must nevertheless be related to the objectives of this programme
and be recognised by the national authorities where it is established.
Applicants must be legally established in one of the Member States of the European Union, in
one of the EFTA countries2 or in a candidate country for future membership of the European
Union3. Consortia of eligible applicants may include universities or university institutes based
in other countries, provided that their participation in the project is limited to maximum 15% of
the budget of the topic per consortium partner.
In addition, proposals must be submitted within the deadlines and in accordance with the
requirements specified in the call for proposals, such as the confirmation of the support and
commitment of the university authorities or associates and members to complete the proposed
topic.
6.4. Grant selection criteria
Financial capacity
Applicants must have stable and adequate financial resources to maintain their activities during
the period of implementation of the topic.
Financial capacity of associations and consortia must be commensurate with the scale,
duration and the planned execution of expenditure under the proposed topic.
Operational capacity
Applicants must have the professional skills and qualifications necessary to provide
specialised training at the required professional level. They must have:
• Appropriate human resources, including professional qualified trainers and proven
project management capacities; and
• The logistical infrastructure necessary to complete the project, including the necessary
financial controls.
In addition, associations or consortia must demonstrate that they have the appropriate
organisational capacity or relevant experience to manage projects involving several partners.
2 Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland
3 Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Moldova, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia, Türkiye and Ukraine
36.5. Grant award criteria
If the application meets the eligibility and selection criteria, it will be evaluated in accordance
with following award criteria:
Topic 1 Organisation of master or post-graduate courses
• Relevance to the priority needs for languages used at the European Parliament and
the EU institutions and bodies for which it provides interpretation services (see table
below)
• Implementation of postgraduate conference interpreter training requirements, meeting
generally accepted quality standards (European Master in Conference Interpretation or
similar);
• Experience in the field and employment record of graduates for the EU Interpretation
Services and/or contribution to creating and maintaining a sufficient pool of interpreters
for the EU Interpretation Services;
• Use of innovative technologies for training;
• Co-operation with other universities;
• Quality and efficiency of the project management (including appropriateness of the
budget)
The language priorities set for this year are listed in the table below:
Priority Active languages (A)
1st Priority DA, EN, GA, MT, UK
2nd Priority BG, DE, EL, FI, SV, PT
3rd Priority CS, ES, FR, HR, HU, IT, NL, SK
4th Priority ET, LT, LV, PL, RO, SL
5th Priority a) candidate country languages: BS, CG, MK, SQ,
TR, SR, KA
b) no-EU official languages: AR, HE, KU, EU
Topic 2 Projects aimed at promoting excellence in conference interpreter training, cooperation
among universities training conference interpreters and research into technical developments
in the area of conference interpreting
• Quality, innovativeness and usability of the proposed project;
• Potential impact on the area of conference interpreting that can be achieved through
the development, dissemination, accessibility and use of the project results, including
potential benefit to the European Parliament and the EU institutions and bodies for
which it provides interpretation services;
• Contribution to the objectives and expected results of the grant programme, as
described in this document;
4• Quality and efficiency of the project management (including appropriateness of the
budget).
Topic 3 Organisation of master or post-graduate or bachelor courses
• Relevance to the priority needs for the Ukrainian language at the European Parliament
and the EU institutions and bodies for which it provides interpretation services;
• Implementation of conference interpreting training requirements, meeting generally
accepted quality standards;
• Experience in the field and employment record of graduates for the EU Interpretation
Services and/or contribution to creating and maintaining a sufficient pool of interpreters
for the EU Interpretation Services;
• Use of innovative technologies for training
• Co-operation with other universities;
• Quality and efficiency of the project management (including appropriateness of the
budget)
6.6. Evaluation of proposals
Proposals will be evaluated by a committee, which is composed of at least three officials from
different European Parliament services. The recommendations of the committee, properly
documented, will be submitted to the designated authorising officer for award decision.
6.7. Maximum level of support and payment schedule
European Parliament co-financing of this activity may not exceed 75% of the total accepted
eligible costs. Applicants shall immediately inform the European Parliament of any multiple
applications and multiple grants relating to the same or equivalent topics or to the same or
equivalent work programmes (Article 191 (d) of the Financial Regulation will apply in all cases).
In no circumstances shall the same costs be financed twice by the EU budget. The Directorate-
General for Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences of the European Parliament and the
Directorate-General for Interpretation of the European Commission cooperate in order to avoid
double-financing of projects.
The topic may start before the agreement is signed (e.g. aptitude test, preparation and
promotion of the course), but costs incurred prior to the date of the submission of the grant
application are not considered eligible.
7. EXPECTED RESULTS
The work programme addresses succession planning in order to maintain the necessary level
of language coverage, in accordance with the needs of the European Parliament.
The support programme aims to promote the development of and support for centres of
excellence providing training that meets the professional standards for conference interpreting
and the current and foreseeable long-term language needs of the European Union institutions,
and specifically those of the European Parliament.
The programme will contribute to the training of the number of conference interpreters required
to ensure the proper functioning of the institutions. This programme addresses the need to
deal with existing shortages for some languages and succession planning for future
5requirements of the institutions, to prepare for the future accession of candidate countries, and
to maintain a high standard of interpreting in the languages of the main political partners of the
European Union.
The results will be measured, inter alia, in terms of the rate/number of graduates from the
supported programmes who take part in the accreditation tests and their rate of success in
these tests or competitions. The contribution of supported topics and projects will be assessed
as to the extent they meet the needs of the European Parliament.
*******
6Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences
GRANT AGREEMENT for an ACTION
AGREEMENT NUMBER – EP XX/2025-2026
The European Union (hereinafter referred to as “the Union”), represented by the European
Parliament (hereinafter referred to as “the Parliament”), the Secretariat of which is located at
Plateau de Kirchberg, L-2929 Luxembourg, itself represented for the purposes of signature of
this agreement by Ms Alison GRAVES, Director of Directorate for Interpretation at the
Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences,
of the one part,
and
Name of establishment
Department
Address
hereinafter referred to as “the beneficiary”, represented for the purposes of signature of this
agreement by
forename, surname and function
of the other part,
HAVE AGREED
to the Special Conditions, General Conditions and Annexes below:
Annex I Description of the action
Annex II General Conditions (hereinafter referred to as the "General Conditions")
Annex III Estimated budget of the action
Annexes IV Template of the Final Report on the action's implementation (IV A),
Template of the Final Financial statement (IV B)
Template of the Details of Expenditure (IV C)
(to be submitted for reporting)
which form an integral part of this agreement, hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement".
The terms set out in the Special Conditions shall take precedence over those in the other
parts of the agreement.
The terms of Annex II "General Conditions" shall take precedence over the other Annexes.
Page 1 of 34I - SPECIAL CONDITIONS
ARTICLE I.1 – PURPOSE OF THE GRANT
I.1.1 The European Parliament has decided to award a grant, under the terms and
conditions set out in the Special Conditions, the General Conditions and the other
Annexes to the agreement for the action entitled XXXXXXX ("the action") as described
in Annex I.
The aim of the grant programme is to help produce a sufficient number of qualified
interpreters who may, subsequently, be recruited by the EU institutions as officials or
accredited conference interpreter agents.
I.1.2 With the signature of the Agreement, the beneficiary accepts the grant and agrees to
implement the action, acting on its own responsibility.
ARTICLE I.2 - ENTRY INTO FORCE OF THE AGREEMENT AND DURATION
I.2.1 The agreement shall enter into force on the date on which the last party signs.
I.2.2 The action shall start on XX/XX/2025 and end on XX/XX/2026.
ARTICLE I.3 - FINANCING THE ACTION
I.3.1 The total cost of the action is estimated at EUR XX as shown in the estimated budget
in Annex III. The estimated budget shall give a detailed breakdown of the costs that are
eligible for Union funding under the terms of Article II.19, of any other costs that the
action may entail, and of all receipts, so that receipts and costs balance.
I.3.2 The total eligible costs of the action for which the European Parliament grant is
awarded are EUR XX, as shown in the estimated budget in Annex III.
Indirect costs are eligible for flat-rate funding of maximum 7% of the total direct costs
eligible, subject to the conditions laid down in Article II.19.3.
I.3.3 The European Parliament shall contribute a maximum of EUR XX equivalent to XX %1
of the estimated total eligible costs indicated in paragraph 2 and actually incurred by
the beneficiary. The final amount of the grant shall be determined as specified in Article
II.25, without prejudice to Article II.19.
The Union grant may not finance the entire costs of the action. The amounts and
sources of co-financing other than from Union funds shall be set out in the estimated
budget referred to in paragraph 1.
The European Parliament accepts that the external co-financing referred to above
should be partially made up of contributions in kind, provided that the conditions set out
in Article II.19.5 are complied with.
1 The EP calculates the definitive grant amount by applying the co-financing percentage specified in the grant
agreement to the eligible/approved final expenditure of the project. The percentage cannot be modified during
the action. The final amount of the grant can never exceed the maximum amount set in the grant agreement.
Page 2 of 34ARTICLE I.4 - ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS ON REPORTING, PAYMENTS AND PAYMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
I.4.1 Reporting periods, payments
In addition to the provisions set out in Articles II.23 and II.24, the following reporting and
payment arrangements shall apply.
All payments shall be made in Euro.
- Within 30 days after entry into force of the Agreement, a pre-financing payment of EUR
XX (70% of the maximum amount specified in Article I.3) shall be paid to the beneficiary,
- The balance shall be paid to the beneficiary after acceptance by the Parliament of the:
- Final Technical report on the action's implementation (Annex IV A);
- Summary Final Financial Statement (IV B);
- Details of Expenditure (IV C);
Interim payments are not applicable.
All reports and statements must be submitted at the latest 60 days after the date of the
end of the action as specified in Article I.2.
I.4.2 Time limit for payments
The time limit for the Parliament to make the 1st pre-financing is 30 days upon entry into force
of the grant agreement. For payment of the balance the time limit is 60 days after reception
of the cost claim and corresponding supporting documents and report(s).
The European Parliament may suspend the period for payment in accordance with the
procedure set out in the Article II.24.4.
I.4.3 Language of requests for payments, technical reports and financial statements
Without prejudice to the Article 24 of the TFEU the beneficiary is recommended to submit all
requests for payments, technical reports and financial statements in English, French or
German and acknowledges that submitting the documents in another official language may
lead to delays in processing them.
ARTICLE I.5 – BANK ACCOUNT FOR PAYMENTS
All payments shall be made to the beneficiary's bank account as indicated below:
Name of bank: XX
Address of branch: XX
Precise denomination of the account holder: XX
Full account number (including bank codes): XX
IBAN code: XX
Page 3 of 34ARTICLE I.6 - DATA CONTROLLER AND COMMUNICATION DETAILS OF THE PARTIES
I.6.1 Data controller
The entity acting as a data controller according to Articles II.5 and II.6 shall be the European
Parliament.
I.6.2 Communication details of the Parliament
Any communication (e.g. reporting, amendment requests, questions) addressed to the
Parliament shall be sent to the following address:
European Parliament
Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences
Multilingualism and Succession Planning Unit
Ms Catherine PEARSON (Head of Unit)
Office MARTENS 02Z042
B- 1047 Brussels (Belgium)
LINC.grants@ep.europa.eu
I.6.3 Communication details of the beneficiary
Any communication from the Parliament to the beneficiary will be sent to the following
address:
XX (Coordinator's Name)
Department
XX
Address
Address
E-mail address: xx
ARTICLE I.7 – SPECIAL PROVISIONS ON BUDGET TRANSFERS
By way of derogation from the first subparagraph of Article II.22, the budget transfer(s)
between chapters is/are limited to 10% of the amount of each chapter of estimated eligible
costs for which the transfer is intended.
The beneficiary shall inform the European Parliament in writing of any budget transfer(s)
before implementing it. Transfers beyond the above ceiling require an amendment to the
grant agreement before their execution.
ARTICLE I.8 - SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR FINAL PAYMENT
In accordance with the principle of the annuality of the Budget, no final payments can be
issued if the time limits set by Article I.4 are not respected.
The final grant amount will be calculated within the final activity report and the final statement
of expenditure.
Page 4 of 34ARTICLE I.9 - SPECIAL PROVISIONS ON THE CONVERSION OF COSTS INCURRED IN
ANOTHER CURRENCY INTO EURO (IF APPICABLE)
By way of derogation from Article II.23.4, requests for payment and financial statements shall
be drafted by the beneficiary in the currencies in which its general accounts are drawn up.
Any conversion into euro of costs incurred in other currencies shall be made using the
average of the monthly exchange rate (see website http://ec.europa.eu/budget/inforeuro/) of
the action's duration.
ARTICLE I.10 – SPECIAL PROVISIONS ON THE EXECUTION OF THE ACTION
During the execution of the grant agreement, the Directorate-General for Logistics and
Interpretation for Conferences of the European Parliament actively monitors the action. The
beneficiaries shall allow representatives of the European Parliament to participate in
examination panels and meetings related to this action. This implies that the beneficiary shall
organise the project by taking into account the calendar of Parliament's activities.
SIGNATURES:
For the beneficiary For the Parliament
XXX XXX
Legal representative [Name of the authorising officer]
[signature] [signature]
Done at Town, Done at Brussels,
(date) (date)
In duplicate in English
Page 5 of 34ANNEX II
GENERAL CONDITIONS
TABLE OF CONTENT
PART A – LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
II.1 – GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF THE BENEFICIARY
II.2 – COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE PARTIES
II.3 – LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES
II.4 – CONFLICT OF INTERESTS
II.5 – CONFIDENTIALITY
II.6 – PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
II.7 – VISIBILITY OF UNION FUNDING
II.8 – PRE-EXISTING RIGHTS AND OWNERSHIP AND USE OF THE RESULTS
(INCLUDING INTELLECTUAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY RIGHTS)
II.9 – AWARD OF CONTRACTS NECESSARY FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
ACTION
II.10 – SUBCONTRACTING OF TASKS FORMING PART OF THE ACTION
II.11 – FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO THIRD PARTIES
II.12 – AMENDMENTS TO THE AGREEMENT
II.13 – ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS FOR PAYMENTS TO THIRD PARTIES
II.14 – FORCE MAJEURE
II.15 – SUSPENSION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ACTION
II.16 – TERMINATION OF THE AGREEMENT
II.17 – ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL PENALTIES
II.18 – APPLICABLE LAW, SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES AND ENFORCEABLE DECISION
PART B – FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
II.19 – ELIGIBLE COSTS
II.20 – IDENTIFIABILITY AND VERIFIABILITY OF THE AMOUNTS DECLARED
II.21 – ELIGIBILITY OF COSTS OF ENTITIES AFFILIATED TO THE BENEFICIARY
II.22 – BUDGET TRANSFERS
II.23 – TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL REPORTING – REQUESTS FOR PAYMENT AND
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
II.24 – PAYMENTS AND PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS
II.25 – DETERMINING THE FINAL AMOUNT OF THE GRANT
II.26 – RECOVERY
II.27 – CHECKS, AUDITS AND EVALUATION
Page 6 of 34ARTICLE II.1 – GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF THE BENEFICIARY
The beneficiary shall:
(a) be responsible for carrying out the action in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the Agreement;
(b) be responsible for complying with any legal obligations incumbent on it;
(c) inform the Parliament immediately of any change likely to affect or delay the
implementation of the action of which the beneficiary is aware;
(d) inform the Parliament immediately of any change in its legal, financial, technical,
organisational or ownership situation and of any change in its name, address or legal
representative;
ARTICLE II.2 – COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE PARTIES
II.2.1 Form and means of communications
Any communication relating to the Agreement or to its implementation shall be made in
writing (in paper or electronic form), shall bear the number of the Agreement and shall be
made using the communication details identified in Article I.6.
Electronic communications shall be confirmed by an original signed paper version of that
communication if requested by any of the parties provided that this request is submitted
without unjustified delay. The sender shall send the original signed paper version without
unjustified delay.
Formal notifications shall be made by registered mail with return receipt or equivalent, or by
equivalent electronic means.
II.2.2 Date of communications
Any communication is deemed to have been made when it is received by the receiving party,
unless the agreement refers to the date when the communication was sent.
Electronic communication is deemed to have been received by the receiving party on the day
of successful dispatch of that communication, provided that it is sent to the addressees listed
in Article I.6. Dispatch shall be deemed unsuccessful if the sending party receives a
message of non-delivery. In this case, the sending party shall immediately contact the unit
mentioned under Article I.6 by telephone. In case of unsuccessful dispatch, the sending party
shall not be held in breach of its obligation to send such communication within a specified
deadline.
Mail sent to the Parliament using the postal services is considered to have been received by
the Parliament on the date on which it is registered by the department identified in Article
I.6.2.
Formal notifications made by registered mail with return receipt or equivalent, or by
equivalent electronic means, shall be considered to have been received by the receiving
party on the date of receipt indicated on the return receipt or equivalent.
Page 7 of 34ARTICLE II.3 – LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES
II.3.1 The Parliament shall not be held liable for any damage caused or sustained by the
beneficiary, including any damage caused to third parties as a consequence of or
during the implementation of the action.
II.3.2 Except in cases of force majeure, the beneficiary shall compensate the Parliament for
any damage sustained by it as a result of the implementation of the action or because
the action was not implemented or implemented poorly, partially or late.
ARTICLE II.4 - CONFLICT OF INTERESTS
II.4.1 The beneficiary shall take all necessary measures to prevent any situation where the
impartial and objective implementation of the Agreement is compromised for reasons
involving economic interest, political or national affinity, family or emotional ties or any
other shared interest (“conflict of interests”).
II.4.2 Any situation constituting or likely to lead to a conflict of interests during the
implementation of the Agreement shall be notified to the Parliament, in writing,
without delay. The beneficiary shall immediately take all the necessary steps to rectify
this situation. The Parliament reserves the right to verify that the measures taken are
appropriate and may require additional measures to be taken within a specified
deadline.
ARTICLE II.5 – CONFIDENTIALITY
II.5.1 The Parliament and the beneficiary shall preserve the confidentiality of any
information and documents, in any form, which are disclosed in writing or orally in
relation to the implementation of the Agreement and which are explicitly indicated in
writing as confidential.
II.5.2 The beneficiary shall not use confidential information and documents for any reason
other than fulfilling its obligations under the Agreement, unless otherwise agreed with
the Parliament in writing.
II.5.3 The Parliament and the beneficiary shall be bound by the obligations referred to in
Articles II.5.1 and II.5.2 during the implementation of the Agreement and for a period
of five years starting from the payment of the balance, unless:
(a) the concerned party agrees to release the other party from the confidentiality
obligations earlier;
(b) the confidential information becomes public through other means than in breach
of the confidentiality obligation through disclosure by the party bound by that
obligation;
(c) the disclosure of the confidential information is required by law.
Page 8 of 34ARTICLE II.6 – PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
II.6.1 Processing of personal data by the Parliament
Any personal data included in the Agreement shall be processed by the Parliament pursuant
to Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October
2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by
the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data.
Such data shall be processed by the data controller identified in Article I.6.1 solely for the
purposes of the implementation, management and monitoring of the Agreement, without
prejudice to possible transmission to the bodies charged with the monitoring or inspection
tasks in application of Union law.
The beneficiary shall have the right of access to his/her personal data and the right to rectify
any such data. Should the beneficiary have any queries concerning the processing of his/her
personal data, he/she shall address them to the data controller, identified in Article I.6.1.
The beneficiary shall have the right of recourse at any time to the European Data Protection
Supervisor.
II.6.2 Processing of personal data by the beneficiary
When personal processing personal data in in relation to this grant, the beneficiary has to
respect the data protection regulation applicable to it, in particular Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
as well as Regulation (EU) No 2018/1725. In particular, the beneficiary undertakes to obtain
and document the consent of data subjects whose data it is processing for the purpose of
this grant, where required by the applicable regulations.
Where the Agreement requires the processing of personal data by the beneficiary, the
beneficiary may act only under the supervision of the data controller identified in Article I.6.1,
in particular with regard to the purpose of the processing, the categories of data which may
be processed, the recipients of the data and the means by which the data subject may
exercise his or her rights.
The access to data that the beneficiary grants to its personnel shall be limited to the extent
strictly necessary for the implementation, management and monitoring of the Agreement.
The beneficiary undertakes to adopt appropriate technical and organisational security
measures having regard to the risks inherent in the processing and to the nature of the
personal data concerned, in order to:
(a) prevent any unauthorised person from gaining access to computer systems processing
personal data, and especially:
(i) unauthorised reading, copying, alteration or removal of storage media;
(ii) unauthorised data input as well as any unauthorised disclosure, alteration or
erasure of stored personal data;
(iii) unauthorised persons from using data-processing systems by means of data
transmission facilities;
(b) ensure that authorised users of a data-processing system can access only the personal
data to which their access right refers;
Page 9 of 34(c) record which personal data have been communicated, when and to whom;
(d) ensure that personal data being processed on behalf of third parties can be processed
only in the manner prescribed by the Parliament;
(e) ensure that, during communication of personal data and transport of storage media, the
data cannot be read, copied or erased without authorisation;
(f) design its organisational structure in such a way that it meets data protection
requirements.
ARTICLE II.7 – VISIBILITY OF UNION FUNDING
II.7.1 Information on Union funding and use of European Parliament emblem
Unless the Parliament requests or agrees otherwise, any communication or publication
related to the action, made by the beneficiary, including at conferences, seminars or in any
information or promotional materials (such as brochures, leaflets, posters, presentations,
etc.), shall indicate that the action has received funding from the Union and shall display the
European Parliament emblem.
When displayed in association with another logo, the European Parliament emblem must
have appropriate prominence.
The obligation to display the European Parliament emblem does not confer to the beneficiary
a right of exclusive use. The beneficiary shall not appropriate the European Parliament
emblem or any similar trademark or logo, either by registration or by any other means.
For the purposes of the first, second and third subparagraphs and under the conditions
specified therein, the beneficiary is exempted from the obligation to obtain prior permission
from the Parliament to use the European Parliament emblem.
II.7.2 Disclaimers excluding Parliament responsibility
Any communication or publication related to the action, made by the beneficiary in any form
and using any means, shall indicate that it reflects only the author's view and that the
Parliament is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information it contains.
ARTICLE II.8 – PRE-EXISTING RIGHTS AND OWNERSHIP AND USE OF THE RESULTS
(INCLUDING INTELLECTUAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY RIGHTS)
II.8.1 Ownership of the results by the beneficiary
Unless stipulated otherwise in the Agreement, ownership of the results of the action,
including industrial and intellectual property rights, and of the reports and other documents
relating to it, shall be vested in the beneficiary.
II.8.2 Pre-existing industrial and intellectual property rights
Where industrial and intellectual property rights, including rights of third parties, exist prior to
the conclusion of the Agreement, the beneficiary shall establish a list which shall specify all
rights of ownership and use of the pre-existing industrial and intellectual property rights and
disclose it to the Parliament at the latest before the commencement of implementation.
Page 10 of 34The beneficiary shall ensure that it or its affiliated entities have all the rights to use any pre-
existing industrial and intellectual property rights during the implementation of the
Agreement.
II.8.3 Rights of use of the results and of pre-existing rights by the Union
Without prejudice to Articles II.1, II.3 and II.8.1, the beneficiary grants the Union the right to
use the results of the action for the following purposes:
(a) use for its own purposes, and in particular, making available to persons working for the
Parliament, other Union institutions, agencies and bodies and to Member States'
institutions, as well as, copying and reproducing in whole or in part and in unlimited
number of copies;
(b) distribution to the public, and in particular, publication in hard copies and in electronic
or digital format, publication on the internet, including on the Europa website, as a
downloadable or non-downloadable file, broadcasting by any kind of technique of
transmission, public display or presentation, communication through press information
services, inclusion in widely accessible databases or indexes;
(c) translation;
(d) giving access upon individual requests without the right to reproduce or exploit, as
provided for by Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and
Commission documents;
(e) storage in paper, electronic or other format;
(f) archiving in line with the document management rules applicable to the Parliament;
(g) rights to authorise or sub-licence the modes of exploitation set out in points (b) and (c)
to third parties.
Additional rights of use for the Union may be provided for in the Special Conditions.
The beneficiary shall warrant that the Union has the right to use any pre-existing industrial
and intellectual property rights, which have been included in the results of the action. Unless
specified otherwise in the Special Conditions, those pre-existing rights shall be used for the
same purposes and under the same conditions applicable to the rights of use of the results of
the action.
Information about the copyright owner shall be inserted when the result is divulged by the
Union. The copyright information shall read: "© – year – name of the copyright owner. All
rights reserved. Licenced to the European Union under conditions.".
ARTICLE II.9 – AWARD OF CONTRACTS NECESSARY FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE ACTION
II.9.1 Where the implementation of the action requires the procurement of goods, works or
services, the beneficiary shall award the contract to the tender offering best value for
money or, as appropriate, to the tender offering the lowest price. In doing so, it shall
avoid any conflict of interests.
Page 11 of 34A beneficiary acting in its capacity of a contracting authority within the meaning of
Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February
2014 on the coordination of procedures for the award of public work contracts, public
supply contracts and public service contracts or a contracting entity within the
meaning of Directive 2014/25/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26
February 2014 coordinating the procurement procedures of entities operating in the
water, energy, transport and postal services sectors shall abide by the applicable
national public procurement rules.
II.9.2 The beneficiary shall retain sole responsibility for carrying out the action and for
compliance with the provisions of the Agreement. The beneficiary shall ensure that
any procurement contract contains provisions stipulating that the contractor has no
rights vis-à-vis the Parliament under the Agreement.
II.9.3 The beneficiary shall ensure that the conditions applicable to it under Articles II.3, II.4,
II.5, II.8 and II.27 are also applicable to the contractor.
ARTICLE II.10 – SUBCONTRACTING OF TASKS FORMING PART OF THE ACTION
II.10.1 A "subcontract" is a procurement contract within the meaning of Article II.9, which
covers the implementation by a third party of tasks forming part of the action as
described in Annex I.
II.10.2 The beneficiary may subcontract tasks forming part of the action, provided that, in
addition to the conditions specified in Article II.9 and the Special Conditions, the
following conditions are complied with:
(a) subcontracting only covers the implementation of a limited part of the action;
(b) recourse to subcontracting is justified having regard to the nature of the action
and what is necessary for its implementation;
(c) the estimated costs of the subcontracting are clearly identifiable in the
estimated budget set out in Annex III;
(d) any recourse to subcontracting, if not provided for in Annex I, is communicated
by the beneficiary and approved by the Parliament without prejudice to Article
II.12.2;
(e) the beneficiary ensures that the conditions applicable to it under Article II.7 are
also applicable to the subcontractor.
ARTICLE II.11 - FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO THIRD PARTIES
II.11.1 Where the implementation of the action requires giving financial support to third
parties, the beneficiary shall give such financial support in accordance with the
conditions specified in Annex I, which shall at least contain:
(a) the maximum amount of financial support, which shall not exceed EUR 60 000
for each third party except where the financial support is the primary aim of the
action as specified in Annex I;
Page 12 of 34(b) the criteria for determining the exact amount of the financial support;
(c) the different types of activity that may receive financial support, on the basis of
a fixed list;
(d) the definition of the persons or categories of persons which may receive
financial support;
(e) the criteria for giving the financial support.
II.11.2 By way of derogation from Article II.11.1, in case the financial support takes the form
of a prize, the beneficiary shall give such financial support in accordance with the
conditions specified in Annex I, which shall at least contain:
(a) the conditions for participation;
(b) the award criteria;
(c) the amount of the prize;
(d) the payment arrangements.
II.11.3 The beneficiary shall ensure that the conditions applicable to it under Articles II.3,
II.4, II.5, II.7, II.8 and II.27 are also applicable to the third parties receiving financial
support.
ARTICLE II.12 – AMENDMENTS TO THE AGREEMENT
II.12.1 Any amendment to the Agreement shall be made in writing.
II.12.2 An amendment may not have the purpose or the effect of making changes to the
Agreement which would call into question the decision awarding the grant or be
contrary to the equal treatment of applicants.
II.12.3 Any request for amendment shall be duly justified and shall be sent to the other
party in due time before it is due to take effect, and in any case one month before
the end of the period set out in Article I.2.2, except in cases duly substantiated by
the party requesting the amendment and accepted by the other party.
II.12.4 In case of an operating grant the period set out in Article I.2.2 shall not be extended
via amendments.
II.12.5 Amendments shall enter into force on the date on which the last party signs or on
the date of approval of the request for amendment.
Amendments shall take effect on a date agreed by the parties or, in the absence of
such an agreed date, on the date on which the amendment enters into force.
ARTICLE II.13 – ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS FOR PAYMENTS TO THIRD PARTIES
II.13.1 Claims for payments of the beneficiary against the Parliament may not be assigned
to third parties, except in duly justified cases where the situation warrants it.
Page 13 of 34The assignment shall only be enforceable against the Parliament if it has accepted
the assignment on the basis of a written and reasoned request to that effect made
by the beneficiary. In the absence of such an acceptance, or in the event of failure to
observe the terms thereof, the assignment shall have no effect on the Parliament.
II.13.2 In no circumstances shall such an assignment release the beneficiary from its
obligations towards the Parliament.
ARTICLE II.14 – FORCE MAJEURE
II.14.1 "Force majeure" shall mean any unforeseeable exceptional situation or event
beyond the parties' control, which prevents either of them from fulfilling any of their
obligations under the Agreement, which was not attributable to error or negligence
on their part or on the part of subcontractors, affiliated entities or third parties
involved in the implementation and which proves to be inevitable in spite of
exercising all due diligence. Any default of a service, defect in equipment or material
or delays in making them available, unless they stem directly from a relevant case of
force majeure, as well as labour disputes, strikes or financial difficulties cannot be
invoked as force majeure.
II.14.2 A party faced with force majeure shall formally notify the other party without delay,
stating the nature, likely duration and foreseeable effects.
II.14.3 The parties shall take the necessary measures to limit any damage due to force
majeure. They shall do their best to resume the implementation of the action as
soon as possible.
II.14.4 The party faced with force majeure shall not be held to be in breach of its obligations
under the Agreement if it has been prevented from fulfilling them by force majeure.
ARTICLE II.15 – SUSPENSION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ACTION
II.15.1 Suspension of the implementation by the beneficiary
The beneficiary may suspend the implementation of the action or any part thereof if
exceptional circumstances make such implementation impossible or excessively difficult, in
particular in the event of force majeure. The beneficiary shall inform the Parliament without
delay, giving all the necessary reasons and details and the foreseeable date of resumption.
Unless the Agreement is terminated in accordance with Article II.16.1 or points (b) or (c) of
Article II.16.2.1, the beneficiary shall, once the circumstances allow resuming the
implementation of the action, inform the Parliament immediately and present a request for
amendment of the Agreement as provided for in Article II.15.3.
II.15.2 Suspension of the implementation by the Parliament
II.15.2.1 The Parliament may suspend the implementation of the action or any part thereof:
(a) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary has committed
substantial errors, irregularities or fraud in the award procedure or in the
implementation of the Agreement or if the beneficiary fails to comply with its
obligations under the Agreement;s
Page 14 of 34(b) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary has committed systemic
or recurrent errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations under other
grants funded by the Union or the European Atomic Energy Community
which were awarded to the beneficiary under similar conditions, provided
that those errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations have a
material impact on this grant; or
(c) if the Parliament suspects substantial errors, irregularities, fraud or breach
of obligations committed by the beneficiary in the award procedure or in the
implementation of the Agreement and needs to verify whether they have
actually occurred.
II.15.2.2 Before suspending the implementation the Parliament shall formally notify the
beneficiary of its intention to suspend, specifying the reasons thereof, and, in the
cases referred to in points (a) and (b) of Article II.15.2.1, the necessary conditions
for resuming the implementation. The beneficiary shall be invited to submit
observations within 30 calendar days from receipt of this notification.
If, after examination of the observations submitted by the beneficiary, the
Parliament decides to stop the suspension procedure, it shall formally notify the
beneficiary thereof.
If no observations have been submitted or if, despite the observations submitted
by the beneficiary, the Parliament decides to pursue the suspension procedure, it
may suspend the implementation by formally notifying the beneficiary thereof,
specifying the reasons for the suspension and, in the cases referred to in points
(a) and (b) of Article II.15.2.1, the definitive conditions for resuming the
implementation or, in the case referred to in point (c) of Article II.15.2.1, the
indicative date of completion of the necessary verification.
The suspension shall take effect on the day of the receipt of the notification by
the beneficiary or on a later date, where the notification so provides.
In order to resume the implementation, the beneficiary shall endeavour to meet
the notified conditions as soon as possible and shall inform the Parliament of any
progress made in this respect.
Unless the Agreement is terminated in accordance with Article II.16.1 or points
(b), (h) or (i) of Article II.16.2.1, the Parliament shall, as soon as it considers that
the conditions for resuming the implementation have been met or the necessary
verification, including on-the-spot checks, has been carried out, formally notify the
beneficiary thereof and invite the beneficiary to present a request for amendment
of the Agreement as provided for in Article II.15.3.
II.15.3 Effects of the suspension
If the implementation of the action can be resumed and the Agreement is not terminated, an
amendment to the Agreement shall be made in accordance with Article II.12 in order to
establish the date on which the action shall be resumed, to extend the duration of the action
and to make any other modifications that may be necessary to adapt the action to the new
implementing conditions.
The suspension is deemed lifted as from the date of resumption of the action agreed by the
parties in accordance with the first subparagraph. Such a date may be before the date on
which the amendment enters into force.
Page 15 of 34Any costs incurred by the beneficiary, during the period of suspension, for the
implementation of the suspended action or the suspended part thereof, shall not be
reimbursed or covered by the grant.
The right of the Parliament to suspend the implementation is without prejudice to its right to
terminate the Agreement in accordance with Article II.16.2 and its right to reduce the grant or
recover amounts unduly paid in accordance with Articles II.25.4 and II.26.
Neither party shall be entitled to claim compensation on account of a suspension by the other
party.
ARTICLE II.16 – TERMINATION OF THE AGREEMENT
II.16.1 Termination of the Agreement by the beneficiary
In duly justified cases the beneficiary may terminate the Agreement by formally notifying the
Parliament thereof, stating clearly the reasons and specifying the date on which the
termination shall take effect. The notification shall be sent before the termination is due to
take effect.
If no reasons are given or if the Parliament considers that the reasons exposed cannot justify
the termination, it shall formally notify the beneficiary, specifying the grounds thereof, and the
Agreement shall be deemed to have been terminated improperly, with the consequences set
out in the third subparagraph of Article II.16.3.
II.16.2 Termination of the Agreement by the Parliament
II.16.2.1 The Parliament may decide to terminate the Agreement in the following
circumstances:
(a) if a change to the beneficiary’s legal, financial, technical, organisational or
ownership situation is likely to affect the implementation of the Agreement
substantially or calls into question the decision to award the grant;
(b) if the beneficiary does not implement the action as specified in Annex I or
fails to comply with another substantial obligation incumbent on it under the
terms of the Agreement;
(c) in the event of force majeure, notified in accordance with Article II.14, or in
the event of suspension by the beneficiary as a result of exceptional
circumstances, notified in accordance with Article II.15, where resuming the
implementation is impossible or where the necessary modifications to the
Agreement would call into question the decision awarding the grant or
would result in unequal treatment of applicants;
(d) if the beneficiary is declared bankrupt, is being wound up, is having its
affairs administered by the courts, has entered into an arrangement with
creditors, has suspended business activities, is the subject of any other
similar proceedings concerning those matters, or is in an analogous
situation arising from a similar procedure provided for in national legislation
or regulations;
Page 16 of 34(e) if the beneficiary or any related person, as defined in the second
subparagraph, have been found guilty of professional misconduct proven
by any means;
(f) if the beneficiary is not in compliance with its obligations relating to the
payment of social security contributions or the payment of taxes in
accordance with the legal provisions of the country in which it is established
or in which the action is implemented;
(g) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary or any related person, as
defined in the second subparagraph, have committed fraud, corruption, or
are involved in a criminal organisation, money laundering or any other
illegal activity detrimental to the Union's financial interests;
(h) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary or any related person, as
defined in the second subparagraph, have committed substantial errors,
irregularities or fraud in the award procedure or in the implementation of the
Agreement, including in the event of submission of false information or
failure to submit required information in order to obtain the grant provided
for in the Agreement; or
(i) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary has committed systemic
or recurrent errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations under other
grants funded by the Union or the European Atomic Energy Community
which were awarded to the beneficiary under similar conditions, provided
that those errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations have a
material impact on this grant.
For the purposes of points (e), (g) and (h) "any related person" shall mean any
natural person who has the power to represent the beneficiary or to take
decisions on its behalf.
II.16.2.2 Before terminating the Agreement, the Parliament shall formally notify the
beneficiary of its intention to terminate, specifying the reasons thereof and inviting
the beneficiary, within 45 calendar days from receipt of the notification, to submit
observations and, in the case of point (b) of Article II.16.2.1, to inform the
Parliament about the measures taken to ensure that it continues to fulfil its
obligations under the Agreement.
If, after examination of the observations submitted by the beneficiary, the
Parliament decides to stop the termination procedure, it shall formally notify the
beneficiary thereof.
If no observations have been submitted or if, despite the observations submitted
by the beneficiary, the Parliament decides to pursue the termination procedure, it
may terminate the Agreement by formally notifying the beneficiary thereof,
specifying the reasons for the termination.
In the cases referred to in points (a), (b), (d) and (f) of Article II.16.2.1, the formal
notification shall specify the date on which the termination takes effect. In the
cases referred to in points (c), (e), (g), (h) and (i) of Article II.16.2.1, the
termination shall take effect on the day following the date on which the formal
notification was received by the beneficiary.
Page 17 of 34II.16.3 Effects of termination
Where the Agreement is terminated, payments by the Parliament shall be limited to the
amount determined in accordance with Article II.25 on the basis of the eligible costs incurred
by the beneficiary and the actual level of implementation of the action on the date when the
termination takes effect. Costs relating to current commitments, which are not due for
execution until after the termination, shall not be taken into account. The beneficiary shall
have 60 days from the date when the termination of the Agreement takes effect, as provided
for in Articles II.16.1 and II.16.2.2, to produce a request for payment of the balance in
accordance with Article II.23.2. If no request for payment of the balance is received within
this time limit, the Parliament shall not reimburse or cover any costs which are not included in
a financial statement approved by it or which are not justified in a technical report approved
by it. In accordance with Article II.26, the Parliament shall recover any amount already paid,
if its use is not substantiated by the technical reports and, where applicable, by the financial
statements approved by the Parliament.
Where the Parliament, in accordance with point (b) of Article II.16.2.1, is terminating the
Agreement on the grounds that the beneficiary has failed to produce the request for payment
and, after a reminder, has still not complied with this obligation within the deadline set out in
Article II.23.3, the first subparagraph shall apply, subject to the following:
(a) there shall be no additional time period from the date when the termination
of the Agreement takes effect for the beneficiary to produce a request for
payment of the balance in accordance with Article II.23.2; and
(b) the Parliament shall not reimburse or cover any costs incurred by the
beneficiary up to the date of termination or up to the end of the period set
out in Article I.2.2, whichever is the earlier, which are not included in a
financial statement approved by it or which are not justified in a technical
report approved by it.
In addition to the first and second subparagraphs, where the Agreement is terminated
improperly by the beneficiary within the meaning of Article II.16.1, or where the Agreement is
terminated by the Parliament on the grounds set out in points (b), (e), (g), (h) and (i) of Article
II.16.2.1, the Parliament may also reduce the grant or recover amounts unduly paid in
accordance with Articles II.25.4 and II.26, in proportion to the gravity of the failings in
question and after allowing the beneficiary to submit its observations.
Neither party shall be entitled to claim compensation on account of a termination by the other
party.
ARTICLE II.17 – ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL PENALTIES
II.17.1 By virtue of Articles 135-142; 196 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules
applicable to the general budget of the Union and with due regard to the principle of
proportionality, if the beneficiary has committed substantial errors, irregularities or
fraud, has made false declarations in supplying required information or has failed to
supply such information at the moment of the submission of the application or during
the implementation of the grant, or has been found in serious breach of its
obligations under the Agreement, it shall be liable to:
(a) administrative penalties consisting of exclusion from all contracts and grants
financed by the Union budget for a maximum of five years from the date on
Page 18 of 34which the infringement is established and confirmed following a contradictory
procedure with the beneficiary; and/or
(b) financial penalties of 2% to 10% of the maximum amount of the grant set out
in Article I.3.
In the event of another infringement within five years following the establishment of
the first infringement, the period of exclusion under point (a) may be extended to 10
years and the range of the rate referred to in point (b) may be increased to 4% to
20%.
II.17.2 The Parliament shall formally notify the beneficiary of any decision to apply such
penalties.
The Parliament is entitled to publish such decision under the conditions and within
the limits specified in Article 109(3) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046.
An action may be brought against such decision before the General Court of the
European Union, pursuant to Article 263 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the
European Union ("TFEU").
ARTICLE II.18 – APPLICABLE LAW, SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES AND ENFORCEABLE
DECISION
II.18.1 The grant is governed by the terms of the agreement, the Union law applicable and,
on a subsidiary basis, by the law of Belgium under the Internal Rules on the
execution of the General Budget of the European Union relating to grants.
II.18.2 Pursuant to Article 272 TFEU, the General Court or, on appeal, the Court of Justice
of the European Union, shall have sole jurisdiction to hear any dispute between the
Union and the beneficiary concerning the interpretation, application or validity of this
Agreement, if such dispute cannot be settled amicably.
Page 19 of 34PART B – FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE II.19 – ELIGIBLE COSTS
II.19.1 Conditions for the eligibility of costs
"Eligible costs" of the action are costs actually incurred by the beneficiary which meet the
following criteria:
(a) they are incurred in the period set out in Article I.2.2, with the exception of costs
relating to the request for payment of the balance and the corresponding supporting
documents referred to in Article II.23.2;
(b) they are indicated in the estimated budget set out in Annex III;
(c) they are incurred in connection with the action as described in Annex I and are
necessary for its implementation;
(d) they are identifiable and verifiable, in particular being recorded in the accounting
records of the beneficiary and determined according to the applicable accounting
standards of the country where the beneficiary is established and with the usual cost
accounting practices of the beneficiary;
(e) they comply with the requirements of applicable tax and social legislation; and
(f) they are reasonable, justified, and comply with the principle of sound financial
management, in particular regarding economy and efficiency.
II.19.2 Eligible direct costs
"Direct costs" of the action are those specific costs which are directly linked to the
implementation of the action and can therefore be attributed directly to it. They may not
include any indirect costs.
To be eligible, direct costs shall comply with the conditions of eligibility set out in Article
II.19.1.
In particular, the following categories of costs are eligible direct costs, provided that they
satisfy the conditions of eligibility set out in Article II.19.1 as well as the following conditions:
(a) the costs of personnel working under an employment contract with the beneficiary or
an equivalent appointing act and assigned to the action, comprising actual salaries plus
social security contributions and other statutory costs included in the remuneration,
provided that these costs are in line with the beneficiary's usual policy on remuneration;
those costs may also include additional remunerations, including payments on the
basis of supplementary contracts regardless of the nature of those contracts, provided
that they are paid in a consistent manner whenever the same kind of work or expertise
is required, independently from the source of funding used;
The costs of natural persons working under a contract with the beneficiary other than
an employment contract may be assimilated to such costs of personnel, provided that
the following conditions are fulfilled:
(i) the natural person works under the instructions of the beneficiary and, unless
otherwise agreed with the beneficiary, in the premises of the beneficiary;
Page 20 of 34(ii) the result of the work belongs to the beneficiary; and
(iii) the costs are not significantly different from the costs of staff performing similar
tasks under an employment contract with the beneficiary;
(b) costs of travel and related subsistence allowances, provided that these costs are in line
with the beneficiary's usual practices on travel;
(c) the depreciation costs of equipment or other assets (new or second-hand) as recorded
in the accounting statements of the beneficiary, provided that the asset has been
purchased in accordance with Article II.9 and that it is written off in accordance with the
international accounting standards and the usual accounting practices of the
beneficiary; the costs of rental or lease of equipment or other assets are also eligible,
provided that these costs do not exceed the depreciation costs of similar equipment or
assets and are exclusive of any finance fee;
Only the portion of the equipment's depreciation, rental or lease costs corresponding to
the period set out in Article I.2.2 and the rate of actual use for the purposes of the
action may be taken into account. By way of exception, the Special Conditions may
provide for the eligibility of the full cost of purchase of equipment, where justified by the
nature of the action and the context of the use of the equipment or assets;
(d) costs of consumables and supplies, provided that they are purchased in accordance
with Article II.9 and are directly assigned to the action;
(e) costs arising directly from requirements imposed by the Agreement (dissemination of
information, specific evaluation of the action, audits, translations, reproduction),
including the costs of requested financial guarantees, provided that the corresponding
services are purchased in accordance with Article II.9;
(f) costs entailed by subcontracts within the meaning of Article II.10, provided that the
conditions laid down in that Article are met;
(g) costs of financial support to third parties within the meaning of Article II.11, provided
that the conditions laid down in that Article are met;
(h) duties, taxes and charges paid by the beneficiary, notably value added tax (VAT),
provided that they are included in eligible direct costs, and unless specified otherwise
in the Agreement.
II.19.3 Eligible indirect costs
"Indirect costs" of the action are those costs which are not specific costs directly linked to the
implementation of the action and can therefore not be attributed directly to it. They may not
include any costs identifiable or declared as eligible direct costs.
To be eligible, indirect costs shall represent a fair apportionment of the overall overheads of
the beneficiary and shall comply with the conditions of eligibility set out in Article II.19.1.
Unless otherwise specified in the Article I.3, eligible indirect costs shall be declared on the
basis of a flat rate of 7% of the total eligible direct costs.
Page 21 of 34II.19.4 Ineligible costs
In addition to any other costs which do not fulfill the conditions set out in Article II.19.1, the
following costs shall not be considered eligible:
(a) return on capital;
(b) debt and debt service charges;
(c) provisions for losses or debts;
(d) interest owed;
(e) doubtful debts;
(f) exchange losses;
(g) costs of transfers from the Parliament charged by the bank of the beneficiary;
(h) costs declared by the beneficiary in the framework of another action receiving a grant
financed from the Union budget (including grants awarded by a Member State and
financed from the Union budget and grants awarded by other bodies than the
Parliament for the purpose of implementing the Union budget); in particular, indirect
costs shall not be eligible under a grant for an action awarded to the beneficiary when it
already receives an operating grant financed from the Union budget during the period
in question;
(i) contributions in kind from third parties;
(j) excessive or reckless expenditure;
(k) deductible VAT.
II.19.5 Contributions in kind
Contributions in kind shall not constitute eligible costs. However, the European Parliament
can accept, if considered necessary or appropriate, that the co-financing of the action
referred to in Article I.3.3 should be made up entirely or in part of contributions in kind. In this
case, the value calculated for such contributions must not exceed:
- the costs actually borne and duly supported by accounting documents of the third
parties who made these contributions to the beneficiary free of charge but bear the
corresponding costs;
- the costs generally accepted on the market in question for the type of contribution
concerned when no costs are borne.
Contributions involving buildings shall not be covered by this possibility.
In the case of co-financing in kind, a financial value shall be placed on the
contributions and the same amount will be included in the costs of the action as
ineligible costs and in receipts from the action as co-financing in kind. The beneficiary
shall undertake to obtain these contributions as provided for in the agreement.
Page 22 of 34ARTICLE II.20 – IDENTIFIABILITY AND VERIFIABILITY OF THE AMOUNTS DECLARED
Reimbursement of actual costs
Where, in accordance with Article I.3, the grant takes the form of the reimbursement of actual
costs, the beneficiary must declare as eligible costs the costs it actually incurred for the
action.
If requested to do so in the context of the checks or audits described in Article II.27, the
beneficiary must be able to provide adequate supporting documents to prove the costs
declared, such as contracts, invoices and accounting records. In addition, the beneficiary's
usual accounting and internal control procedures must permit direct reconciliation of the
amounts declared with the amounts recorded in its accounting statements as well as with the
amounts indicated in the supporting documents.
ARTICLE II.21 – ELIGIBILITY OF COSTS OF ENTITIES AFFILIATED TO THE
BENEFICIARY
Where the Special Conditions contain a provision on entities affiliated to the beneficiary,
costs incurred by such an entity are eligible, provided that they satisfy the same conditions
under Articles II.19 and II.20 as apply to the beneficiary, and that the beneficiary ensures that
the conditions applicable to it under Articles II.3, II.4, II.5, II.7, II.9, II.10, and II.27 are also
applicable to the entity.
ARTICLE II.22 – BUDGET TRANSFERS
Without prejudice to Article II.10 and provided that the action is implemented as described in
Annex I, the beneficiary is allowed to adjust the estimated budget set out in Annex III, by
transfers between the different budget categories up to the limits set up in Article I.7, without
this adjustment being considered as an amendment of the Agreement within the meaning of
Article II.12.
ARTICLE II.23 – TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL REPORTING – REQUESTS FOR
PAYMENT AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
II.23.1 Requests for further pre-financing payments and supporting documents
Where, in accordance with Article I.4.1, the pre-financing shall be paid in several instalments
and where Article I.4.1 provides for a further pre-financing payment subject to having used all
or part of the previous instalment, the beneficiary may submit a request for a further pre-
financing payment once the percentage of the previous instalment specified in Article I.4.1
has been used.
Where, in accordance with Article I.4.1, the pre-financing shall be paid in several instalments
and where Article I.4.1 provides for a further pre-financing payment at the end of a reporting
period, the beneficiary shall submit a request for a further pre-financing payment within 60
days following the end of each reporting period for which a new pre-financing payment is
due.
In both cases, the request shall be accompanied by the following documents:
(a) a progress report on implementation of the action (“technical report on progress”);
Page 23 of 34(b) a statement on the amount of the previous pre-financing instalment used to cover costs
of the action (“statement on the use of the previous pre-financing instalment”), drawn
up in accordance with Annex IV; and
(c) where required by Article I.4.1, a financial guarantee.
II.23.2 Requests for interim payments or for payment of the balance and supporting
documents
The beneficiary shall submit a request for an interim payment or for payment of the balance
within 60 days following the end of each reporting period for which, in accordance with Article
I.4.1, an interim payment or the payment of the balance is due.
This request shall be accompanied by the following documents:
(a) an interim report (“interim technical report”) or, for the payment of the balance, a final
report on implementation of the action (“final technical report”), drawn up in accordance
with Annex IV;
(b) an interim financial statement (“interim financial statement”) or, for the payment of the
balance, a final financial statement (“final financial statement”); the interim or final
financial statements must include a breakdown of the amounts claimed by the
beneficiary and its affiliated entities; it must be drawn up in accordance with the
structure of the estimated budget set out in Annex III and with Annex IV and detail the
amounts for each of the forms of grant set out in Article I.3 for the reporting period
concerned;
(c) only for the payment of the balance, a summary financial statement (“summary
financial statement”); this statement must include a breakdown of the amounts
declared or requested by the beneficiary and its affiliated entities, aggregating the
financial statements already submitted previously and indicating the receipts referred to
in Article II.25.3.2 for the beneficiary and its affiliated entities; it must be drawn up in
accordance with Annex IV;
The beneficiary shall certify that the information provided in the request for interim payment
or for payment of the balance is full, reliable and true. It shall also certify that the costs
incurred can be considered eligible in accordance with the Agreement and that the request
for payment is substantiated by adequate supporting documents that can be produced in the
context of the checks or audits described in Article II.27. In addition, for the payment of the
balance, it shall certify that all the receipts referred to in Article II.25.3.2 have been declared.
II.23.3 Non-submission of documents
Where the beneficiary has failed to submit a request for interim payment or payment of the
balance accompanied by the documents referred to above within 60 days following the end
of the corresponding reporting period and where the beneficiary still fails to submit such a
request within 60 days following a written reminder sent by the Parliament, the Parliament
reserves the right to terminate the Agreement in accordance with Article II.16.2.1(b), with the
effects described in the second and the third subparagraphs of Article II.16.3.
Page 24 of 34II.23.4 Currency for requests for payment and financial statements and conversion
into euro
Requests for payment and financial statements shall be drafted in euro.
Where the beneficiary keeps its general accounts in a currency other than the euro, it shall
convert costs incurred in another currency into euro at the average of the monthly exchange
rate (see website http://ec.europa.eu/budget/inforeuro/) of the action's duration.
Where the beneficiary keeps its general accounts in euro, it shall convert costs incurred in
another currency into euro according to its usual accounting practices.
ARTICLE II.24 – PAYMENTS AND PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS
II.24.1 Pre-financing
The pre-financing is intended to provide the beneficiary with a float.
Without prejudice to Article II.24.6, where Article I.4.1 provides for a pre-financing payment
upon entry into force of the Agreement, the Parliament shall pay to the beneficiary within 30
days following that date.
II.24.2 Further pre-financing payments
Without prejudice to Articles II.24.4 and II.24.5, on receipt of the documents referred to in
Article II.23.1, the Parliament shall pay to the beneficiary the new pre-financing instalment
within 60 days.
Where the statement on the use of the previous pre-financing instalment submitted in
accordance with Article II.23.1 shows that less than 70% of the previous pre-financing
instalment paid has been used to cover costs of the action, the amount of the new pre-
financing to be paid shall be reduced by the difference between the 70% threshold and the
amount used.
II.24.3 Payment of the balance
The payment of the balance, which may not be repeated, is intended to reimburse or cover
after the end of period set out in Article I.2.2 the remaining part of the eligible costs incurred
by the beneficiary for its implementation. Where the total amount of earlier payments is
greater than the final amount of the grant determined in accordance with Article II.25, the
payment of the balance may take the form of a recovery as provided for by Article II.26.
Without prejudice to Articles II.24.4 and II.24.5, on receipt of the documents referred to in
Article II.23.2, the Parliament shall pay the amount due as the balance within the time limit
specified in Article I.4.2.
This amount shall be determined following approval of the request for payment of the
balance and of the accompanying documents and in accordance with the fourth
subparagraph. Approval of the request for payment of the balance and of the accompanying
documents shall not imply recognition of the regularity or of the authenticity, completeness
and correctness of the declarations and information it contains.
Page 25 of 34The amount due as the balance shall be determined by deducting, from the final amount of
the grant determined in accordance with Article II.25, the total amount of pre-financing and
interim payments already made.
II.24.4 Suspension of the time limit for payment
The Parliament may suspend the time limit for payment specified in Articles I.4.2 and II.24.2
at any time by formally notifying the beneficiary that its request for payment cannot be met,
either because it does not comply with the provisions of the Agreement, or because the
appropriate supporting documents have not been produced, or because there is doubt about
the eligibility of the costs declared in the financial statement.
The beneficiary shall be notified as soon as possible of any such suspension, together with
the reasons thereof.
Suspension shall take effect on the date when notification is sent by the Parliament. The
remaining payment period shall start to run again from the date on which the requested
information or revised documents are received or the necessary further verification, including
on-the-spot checks, is carried out. Where the suspension exceeds two months, the
beneficiary may request a decision by the Parliament on whether the suspension is to be
continued.
Where the time limit for payment has been suspended following the rejection of one of the
technical reports or financial statements provided for by Article II.23 and the new report or
statement submitted is also rejected, the Parliament reserves the right to terminate the
Agreement in accordance with Article II.16.2.1 (b), with the effects described in Article II.16.3.
II.24.5 Suspension of payments
The Parliament may, at any time during the implementation of the Agreement, suspend the
pre-financing payments, interim payments or payment of the balance:
(a) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary has committed substantial errors,
irregularities or fraud in the award procedure or in the implementation of the grant, or if
the beneficiary fails to comply with its obligations under the Agreement;
(b) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary has committed systemic or recurrent
errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations under other grants funded by the
Union or by the European Atomic Energy Community which were awarded to the
beneficiary under similar conditions, provided that those errors, irregularities, fraud or
breach of obligations have a material impact on this grant; or
(c) if the Parliament suspects substantial errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of
obligations committed by the beneficiary in the award procedure or in the
implementation of the Agreement and needs to verify whether they have actually
occurred.
Before suspending payments, the Parliament shall formally notify the beneficiary of its
intention to suspend payments, specifying the reasons thereof and, in the cases referred to
in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph, the necessary conditions for resuming
payments. The beneficiary shall be invited to make any observations within 30 calendar days
from receipt of this notification.
Page 26 of 34If, after examination of the observations submitted by the beneficiary, the Parliament decides
to stop the procedure of payment suspension, the Parliament shall formally notify the
beneficiary thereof.
If no observations have been submitted or if, despite the observations submitted by the
beneficiary, the Parliament decides to pursue the procedure of payment suspension, it may
suspend payments by formally notifying the beneficiary, specifying the reasons for the
suspension and, in the cases referred to in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph, the
definitive conditions for resuming payments or, in the case referred to in point (c) of the first
subparagraph, the indicative date of completion of the necessary verification.
The suspension of payments shall take effect on the date when the notification is sent by the
Parliament.
In order to resume payments, the beneficiary shall endeavour to meet the notified conditions
as soon as possible and shall inform the Parliament of any progress made in this respect.
The Parliament shall, as soon as it considers that the conditions for resuming payments have
been met or the necessary verification, including on-the-spot checks, has been carried out,
formally notify the beneficiary thereof.
During the period of suspension of payments and without prejudice to the right to suspend
the implementation in accordance with Article II.15.1 or to terminate the Agreement in
accordance with Article II.16.1, the beneficiary is not entitled to submit any requests for
payments and supporting documents referred to in Article II.23.
The corresponding requests for payments and supporting documents may be submitted as
soon as possible after resumption of payments or may be included in the first request for
payment due following resumption of payments in accordance with the schedule laid down in
Article I.4.1
II.24.6 Notification of amounts due
The Parliament shall formally notify the amounts due, specifying whether it is a further pre-
financing payment, an interim payment or the payment of the balance. In the case of
payment of the balance, it shall also specify the final amount of the grant determined in
accordance with Article II.25.
II.24.7 Interest on late payment
On expiry of the time limits for payment specified in Articles I.4.2, II.24.1 and II.24.2, and
without prejudice to Articles II.24.4 and II.24.5, the beneficiary is entitled to interest on late
payment at the rate applied by the European Central Bank for its main refinancing operations
in euros ("the reference rate"), plus three and a half percentage points. The reference rate
shall be the rate in force on the first day of the month in which the time limit for payment
expires, as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union.
The first subparagraph shall not apply where the beneficiary is a Member State of the Union,
including regional and local government authorities and other public bodies acting in the
name and on behalf of the Member State for the purpose of this Agreement.
The suspension of the time limit for payment in accordance with Article II.24.4 or of payment
by the Parliament in accordance with Article II.24.5 may not be considered as late payment.
Page 27 of 34Interest on late payment shall cover the period running from the day following the due date
for payment, up to and including the date of actual payment as established in Article II.24.9.
The interest payable shall not be considered for the purposes of determining the final amount
of grant within the meaning of Article II.25.3.
By way of derogation from the first subparagraph, when the calculated interest is lower than
or equal to EUR 200, it shall be paid to the beneficiary only upon request submitted within
two months of receiving late payment.
II.24.8 Currency for payments
Payments by the Parliament shall be made in euro.
II.24.9 Date of payment
Payments by the Parliament shall be deemed to be effected on the date when they are
debited to the Parliament's account.
II.24.10 Costs of payment transfers
Costs of the payment transfers shall be borne in the following way:
(a) costs of transfer charged by the bank of the Parliament shall be borne by the
Parliament;
(b) costs of transfer charged by the bank of the beneficiary shall be borne by the
beneficiary;
(c) all costs of repeated transfers caused by one of the parties shall be borne by the party
which caused the repetition of the transfer.
ARTICLE II.25 – DETERMINING THE FINAL AMOUNT OF THE GRANT
II.25.1 Calculation of the final amount
Without prejudice to Articles II.25.2, II.25.3 and II.25.4, the final amount of the grant shall be
determined as follows:
Where, in accordance with Article I.3, the grant takes the form of the reimbursement of
eligible costs, the amount obtained by application of the reimbursement rate specified in that
Article to the eligible costs of the action approved by the Parliament for the corresponding
categories of costs, for the beneficiary and its affiliated entities;
II.25.2 Maximum amount
The total amount paid to the beneficiary by the Parliament may in no circumstances exceed
the maximum amount specified in Article I.3.
Where the amount determined in accordance with Article II.25.1 exceeds this maximum
amount, the final amount of the grant shall be limited to the maximum amount specified in
Article I.3.
Page 28 of 34II.25.3 No-profit rule and taking into account of receipts
II.25.3.1 The grant may not produce a profit for the beneficiary, unless specified otherwise in
the Special Conditions. "Profit" shall mean a surplus of the receipts over the eligible
costs of the action.
No-profit is one of the basic principles applicable to the grants (art.188(f) FR). In
general, grants shall not have the purpose or the effect of producing a profit within
the framework of the action or work programme of the beneficiary. The exceptions
are found in article 192(3) FR.
II.25.3.2 The receipts to be taken into account are the receipts established, generated or
confirmed on the date on which the request for payment of the balance is drawn up
by the beneficiary, which fall within one of the following two categories:
(a) income generated by the action; or
(b) financial contributions specifically assigned by the donors to the financing of the
eligible costs of the action reimbursed by the Parliament in accordance with
Article I.3.
(c) in case of an operating grant, amounts dedicated to the building up of reserves.
II.25.3.3 The following shall not be considered as a receipt to be taken into account for the
purpose of verifying whether the grant produces a profit for the beneficiary:
(a) financial contributions referred to in point (b) of Article II.25.3.2, which may be
used by the beneficiary to cover costs other than the eligible costs under the
Agreement;
(b) financial contributions referred to in point (b) of Article II.25.3.2, the unused part
of which is not due to the donor at the end of the period set out in Article I.2.2;
II.25.3.4 The eligible costs to be taken into account are the eligible costs approved by the
Parliament for the categories of costs reimbursed in accordance with Article I.3.
II.25.3.5 Where the final amount of the grant determined in accordance with Articles II.25.1
and II.25.2 would result in a profit for the beneficiary, the profit shall be deducted in
proportion to the final rate of reimbursement of the actual eligible costs of the action
approved by the Parliament for the categories of costs referred to in Article I.3. This
final rate shall be calculated on the basis of the final amount of the grant in the form
referred to in Article I.3, as determined in accordance with Articles II.25.1 and
II.25.2.
II.25.4 Reduction for poor, partial or late implementation
If the action is not implemented or is implemented poorly, partially or late, the Parliament
may reduce the grant initially provided for, in line with the actual implementation of the action
according to the terms laid down in the Agreement.
ARTICLE II.26 – RECOVERY
II.26.1 Financial responsibility
Where an amount is to be recovered under the terms of the Agreement, the beneficiary shall
repay the Parliament the amount in question. The beneficiary shall be responsible for the
Page 29 of 34repayment of any amount unduly paid by the Parliament as a contribution towards the costs
incurred by its affiliated entities.
II.26.2 Recovery procedure
Before recovery, the Parliament shall formally notify the beneficiary of its intention to recover
the amount unduly paid, specifying the amount due and the reasons for recovery and inviting
the beneficiary to make any observations within a specified period.
If no observations have been submitted or if, despite the observations submitted by the
beneficiary, the Parliament decides to pursue the recovery procedure, the Parliament may
confirm recovery by formally notifying to the beneficiary a debit note (“debit note”), specifying
the terms and the date for payment.
If payment has not been made by the date specified in the debit note, the Parliament shall
recover the amount due:
(a) by offsetting it against any amounts owed to the beneficiary by the Union or
the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) (“offsetting”); in
exceptional circumstances, justified by the necessity to safeguard the financial
interests of the Union, the Parliament may recover by offsetting before the due
date; the beneficiary’s prior consent shall not be required; an action may be
brought against such offsetting before the General Court of the European
Union pursuant to Article 263 TFEU;
(b) by taking legal action in accordance with Article II.18.2 or with the Special
Conditions.
II.26.3 Interest on late payment
If payment has not been made by the date set out in the debit note, the amount due shall
bear interest at the rate established in Article II.24.7. Interest on late payment shall cover the
period running from the day following the due date for payment, up to and including the date
when the Parliament actually receives payment in full of the outstanding amount.
Any partial payment shall first be appropriated against charges and interest on late payment
and then against the principal.
II.26.4 Bank charges
Bank charges incurred in connection with the recovery of the sums owed to the Parliament
shall be borne by the beneficiary except where Directive (EU) 2015/2366 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal
market amending Directives 2002/65/EC, 2009/110/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010 and repealing Directive 2007/64/EC applies.
ARTICLE II.27 – CHECKS, AUDITS AND EVALUATION
II.27.1 Technical and financial checks or audits and interim and final evaluations
The Parliament may carry out technical and financial checks and audits in relation to the use
of the grant. It may also check the statutory records of the beneficiary for the purpose of
periodic assessments of lump sum, unit cost or flat-rate amounts.
Page 30 of 34Information and documents provided in the framework of checks or audits shall be treated on
a confidential basis.
In addition, the Parliament may carry out interim or final evaluation of the impact of the action
measured against the objective of the Union programme concerned.
Checks, audits or evaluations made by the Parliament may be carried out either directly by
its own staff or by any other outside body authorised to do so on its behalf.
Such checks, audits or evaluations may be initiated during the implementation of the
Agreement and for a period of five years starting from the date of payment of the balance.
This period shall be limited to three years if the maximum amount specified in Article I.3 is
not more than EUR 60 000.
The check, audit or evaluation procedure shall be deemed to be initiated on the date of
receipt of the letter of the Parliament announcing it.
II.27.2 Duty to keep documents
The beneficiary shall keep all original documents, especially accounting and tax records,
stored on any appropriate medium, including digitalised originals when they are authorised
by its national law and under the conditions laid down therein, for a period of five years
starting from the date of payment of the balance.
This period shall be limited to three years if the maximum amount specified in Article I.3 is
not more than EUR 60 000.
The periods set out in the first and second subparagraphs shall be longer if there are on-
going audits, appeals, litigation or pursuit of claims concerning the grant, including in the
case referred to in Article II.27.7. In such cases, the beneficiary shall keep the documents
until such audits, appeals, litigation or pursuit of claims are closed.
II.27.3 Obligation to provide information
The beneficiary shall provide any information, including information in electronic format,
requested by the Parliament, or by any other outside body authorised by it, in the context of
checks, audits or evaluations as referred to in Article II.27.1
In case the beneficiary does not comply with the obligation set out in the first subparagraph,
the Parliament may consider:
(a) any cost insufficiently substantiated by information provided by the beneficiary as
ineligible;
(b) any unit, lump sum or flat-rate contribution insufficiently substantiated by information
provided by the beneficiary as undue.
II.27.4 On-the-spot visits
During an on-the-spot visit, the beneficiary shall allow Parliament staff and outside personnel
authorised by the Parliament to have access to the sites and premises where the action is or
was carried out, and to all the necessary information, including information in electronic
format.
It shall ensure that the information is readily available at the moment of the on-the-spot visit
and that information requested is handed over in an appropriate form.
Page 31 of 34In case the beneficiary refuses to provide access to the sites, premises and information in
accordance with the first and second subparagraphs, the Parliament may consider:
(a) any cost insufficiently substantiated by information provided by the beneficiary as
ineligible;
(b) any unit, lump sum or flat-rate contribution insufficiently substantiated by information
provided by the beneficiary as undue.
II.27.5 Contradictory audit procedure
On the basis of the findings made during the audit, a provisional report (“draft audit report”)
shall be drawn up. It shall be sent by the Parliament or its authorised representative to the
beneficiary, which shall have 30 days from the date of receipt to submit observations. The
final report (“final audit report”) shall be sent to the beneficiary within 60 days of expiry of the
time limit for submission of observations.
II.27.6 Effects of audit findings
On the basis of the final audit findings, the Parliament may take the measures which it
considers necessary, including recovery of all or part of the payments made by it, in
accordance with Article II.26.
In the case of final audit findings made after the payment of the balance, the amount to be
recovered shall correspond to the difference between the revised final amount of the grant,
determined in accordance with Article II.25, and the total amount paid to the beneficiary
under the Agreement for the implementation of the action.
II.27.7 Correction of systemic or recurrent errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of
obligations
II.27.7.1 The Parliament may take all measures which it considers necessary, including
recovery of all or part of the payments made by it under the Agreement, in
accordance with Article II.26, where the following conditions are fulfilled:
a) the beneficiary is found, on the basis of an audit of other grants awarded to it
under similar conditions, to have committed systemic or recurrent errors,
irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations that have a material impact on this
grant; and
b) the final audit report containing the findings of the systemic or recurrent errors,
irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations is received by the beneficiary
within the period referred to in Article II.27.1.
II.27.7.2 The Parliament shall determine the amount to be corrected under the Agreement:
a) wherever possible and practicable, on the basis of costs unduly declared as
eligible under the Agreement.
For that purpose, the beneficiary shall revise the financial statements
submitted under the Agreement taking account of the findings and resubmit
them to the Parliament within 60 days from the date of receipt of the final audit
report containing the findings of the systemic or recurrent errors, irregularities,
fraud or breach of obligations.
Page 32 of 34In the case of systemic or recurrent errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of
obligations found after the payment of the balance, the amount to be
recovered shall correspond to the difference between the revised final amount
of the grant, determined in accordance with Article II.25 on the basis of the
revised eligible costs declared by the beneficiary and approved by the
Parliament, and the total amount paid to the beneficiary under the Agreement
for the implementation of the action;
b) where it is not possible or practicable to quantify precisely the amount of
ineligible costs under the Agreement, by extrapolating the correction rate
applied to the eligible costs for the grants for which the systemic or recurrent
errors or irregularities have been found.
The Parliament shall formally notify the extrapolation method to be applied to
the beneficiary, which shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the
notification to submit observations and to propose a duly substantiated
alternative method.
If the Parliament accepts the alternative method proposed by the beneficiary,
it shall formally notify the beneficiary thereof and determine the revised eligible
costs by applying the accepted alternative method.
If no observations have been submitted or if the Parliament does not accept
the observations or the alternative method proposed by the beneficiary, the
Parliament shall formally notify the beneficiary thereof and determine the
revised eligible costs by applying the extrapolation method initially notified to
the beneficiary.
In the case of systemic or recurrent errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of
obligations found after the payment of the balance, the amount to be
recovered shall correspond to the difference between the revised final amount
of the grant, determined in accordance with Article II.25 on the basis of the
revised eligible costs after extrapolation, and the total amount paid to the
beneficiary under the Agreement for the implementation of the action; or
c) where ineligible costs cannot serve as a basis for determining the amount to
be corrected, by applying a flat rate correction to maximum amount of the
grant specified in Article I.3 or part thereof, having regard to the principle of
proportionality.
The Parliament shall formally notify the flat rate to be applied to the
beneficiary, which shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the
notification to submit observations and to propose a duly substantiated
alternative flat rate.
If the Parliament accepts the alternative flat rate proposed by the beneficiary,
it shall formally notify the beneficiary thereof and correct the grant amount by
applying the accepted alternative flat rate.
If no observations have been submitted or if the Parliament does not accept
the observations or the alternative flat rate proposed by the beneficiary, the
Parliament shall formally notify the beneficiary thereof and correct the grant
amount by applying the flat rate initially notified to the beneficiary.
Page 33 of 34In the case of systemic or recurrent errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of
obligations found after the payment of the balance, the amount to be
recovered shall correspond to the difference between the revised final amount
of the grant after flat-rate correction and the total amount paid to the
beneficiary under the Agreement for the implementation of the action.
II.27.8 Checks and inspections by OLAF
The European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) shall have the same rights as the Parliament,
notably right of access, for the purpose of checks and investigations.
By virtue of Council Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996 concerning
on-the-spot checks and inspections carried out by the Commission in order to protect the
European Communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities and
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 883/2013 of the European Parliament and the Council of 11
September 2013 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office
(OLAF), OLAF may also carry out on-the-spot checks and inspections in accordance with the
procedures laid down by Union law for the protection of the financial interests of the Union
against fraud and other irregularities.
Where appropriate, OLAF findings may lead to recovery by the Parliament.
II.27.9 Checks and audits by the European Court of Auditors
The European Court of Auditors shall have the same rights as the Parliament, notably right of
access, for the purpose of checks and audits.
Page 34 of 34ANNEX IV A
FINAL IMPLEMENTATION REPORT 2025-2026
of EP funded conference interpreting courses
TOPIC 3 - Master, Postgraduate or bachelor’s courses
Please answer all questions of this form (except the last one, which is for optional comments).
All information provided will be treated as strictly confidential and will be used only for the
purpose of evaluation. Please do not forget to sign the form before returning it!
1. Name and location of the Institution:
2. Name of the department/faculty:
3. Title of the course and reference of the Grant Agreement (EP Nr/2025-2026):
4. Name of the course coordinator:
5. Do different conference interpreting courses run in parallel at the university?
If yes, please list:
6. Total duration of the course (number of semesters):
7. Languages and language combinations offered:
• Active languages:
• Passive languages:
• Language combinations:
A/B A/BC A/CC A/CCC Other:
8. Brief description of means and timing of advertising / publicity of co-funding
received from the European Union:
9. Date(s) of admission exams / deadline for registrations:
10. Number of students
• applying for the aptitude tests:
• admitted to the aptitude and/or final selection tests:
• admitted to the course:
1/4• effectively registered (for 2nd year students, please state those numbers
separately):
11. Was a minimum number of students required for a course to be approved?
If so, what was it?
12. Brief description of methods of examination used for the aptitude tests:
13. Starting and ending dates of the course:
14. Work programme (if different from description given in the grant application):
15. Total number of hours of the course:
• No. of hours of simultaneous interpreting practice:
• No. of hours of consecutive interpreting practice:
16. Does the coordinator have the autonomy to set pedagogical priorities?
17. Pedagogical material and tools (Speech Repository system, DVDs, etc.) and
IT equipment used for the project (e.g. equipment for virtual classes etc.)
a) for students:
b) for teachers:
18. Pedagogical assistance received (please quantify) from DG LINC / DG SCIC
and/or other sources:
• Did you participate in virtual classes? If so, how many classes were
organised and how many students in total participated?
• Did the teaching staff participate in seminars for trainers? If so, in what kind
of seminars and how many teachers participated?
• Did your students participate in a visit to the European Institutions?
• Were staff members of EU institutions invited to participate in final exams?
If so, were they full members of the examination board?
• Were staff members of EU institutions or accredited freelance interpreters
teaching on the course? If so, which courses and for how many hours?
• Did you receive any other type of pedagogical support?
2/419. Number of student bursaries (stating source) if applicable:
20. Additional financial assistance received (stating source):
21. Results of Interim / Final Examination (as appropriate)
(if 2-year study programme, please indicate figures in separate tables)
Results of INTERIM exams (add rows if needed)
Pass rate: ? %
Languages
Student Passed / Failed
A B C
Student 1
Student 2
etc.
Results of FINAL exams (add rows if needed)
Pass rate: ? %
Languages
Student Passed / Failed
A B C
Student 1
Student 2
etc.
22. Main reasons for candidates failing at the interim/final exams:
23. How many graduates plan to take the EU accreditation test?
24. Did any of your students (recent graduates) participate in the EU
accreditation tests since last September? If so, how many and how many of
them were successful?
25. Did any of your students (recent graduates) participate in EPSO examinations
for interpreters since last September? If so, how many and how many of them
were successful?
26. Description of other activities (e.g. conferences, workshops, seminars,
exchanges, etc.)
3/427. Please describe any other interesting aspects – innovations, improvements,
problems encountered etc. – and prospects of the course for the future:
28. Any other useful information or comments you would like to share?
Date: Name and Surname:
(Person responsible for the action)
Signature:
4/4Directorate-General for Logistics
and Interpretation for Conferences
Call for proposals
EP-LINC-SUBV-2025-CONF-INT
Financial support for training in
conference interpreting
2025-2026TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. OBJECTIVES ............................................................................................................................................. 3
2. TYPES OF PROJECTS SOUGHT AND INDICATIVE BUDGET DISTRIBUTION ................................................. 3
3. TIMETABLE (INDICATIVE) ........................................................................................................................ 4
4. PROCEDURE FOR SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS ...................................................................................... 4
5. ELIGIBLE APPLICANTS ............................................................................................................................. 5
6. EXCLUSION CRITERIA .............................................................................................................................. 6
7. SELECTION CRITERIA ............................................................................................................................... 8
8. GRANT AWARD CRITERIA ....................................................................................................................... 9
9. EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS AND GRANT AWARD .............................................................................. 11
10. GENERAL PRINCIPLES ............................................................................................................................ 12
11. CONTACTS BETWEEN APPLICANTS AND INSTITUTIONS......................................................................... 12
12. GRANT AGREEMENT AND COMMITMENTS OF BENEFICIARIES .............................................................. 13
13. FINANCIAL PROVISIONS ........................................................................................................................ 13
14. PUBLICITY ............................................................................................................................................. 14
15. DATA PROTECTION ............................................................................................................................... 15
16. DOCUMENTS RELATED TO THIS CALL FOR PROPOSALS ......................................................................... 15
- 2 -1. Objectives
The Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences (DG LINC) of the
European Parliament provides and manages interpretation services for all meetings organised
by the European Parliament, as well as other institutions and bodies within the framework of
inter-institutional cooperation. As a world leader in conference interpreting provision, it
ensures that the proceedings of the European Parliament can be followed in real time by
Members of Parliament and by citizens in all official languages of the European Union. For
this purpose, DG LINC collaborates with universities and organisations specialising in
conference interpreter training to ensure the availability of a sufficient number of qualified
conference interpreters to cover the service needs. The quality standards applied by DG LINC
to assess training courses and the possible forms of cooperation between DG LINC and the
universities are laid down in the Memorandum of Understanding on the training of conference
interpreters1.
Through the programme of grants, DG LINC wishes to support the following topics in the
field of interpretation:
a) The promotion of quality and linguistic diversity in the teaching of conference
interpreting in the official languages of the EU, of the candidate countries and of the
countries which are the main political partners of the Union;
b) The establishment of postgraduate centres of excellence;
c) Cooperation among postgraduate courses from different European, candidate and
third countries offering relevant language combinations;
d) Regional cooperation among universities with complementary language regimes; and
e) Integration of modern information and communication technologies in the training of
conference interpreters.
2. Types of projects sought and indicative budget distribution
Applicants are invited to submit project proposals corresponding to one of the following
topics:
Topic 1: EP-LINC-SUBV-2025-CONF-INT-01: Organisation of high-quality master or
post-graduate courses in conference interpreting.
Total indicative budget foreseen for the proposals submitted to this topic: €434.000
Topic 2: EP-LINC-SUBV-2025-CONF-INT-02: Promotion of excellence in conference
interpreter training, cooperation among universities training conference interpreters
and research into technical developments in the area of conference interpreting.
Project proposals submitted to this topic may combine several activities, such as:
 networking activities and management of structures for cooperation between the
centres of excellence in conference interpreter training
 organisation of student/teacher mobility
1 http://www.europarl.europa.eu/interpretation/en/universities/criteria-for-cooperation.html
- 3 - organisation of training of trainers
 organisation of e-learning/virtual coaching activities
 integration of innovative training content and tools in interpreter training
Total indicative budget foreseen for the proposals submitted to this topic: €150.000
Topic 3: EP-LINC-SUBV-2025-CONF-INT-03: Organisation of high-quality master,
post-graduate courses or bachelor courses by Ukrainian universities with conference
interpreting components.
Total indicative budget foreseen for the proposals submitted to this topic: €150.000
3. Timetable (indicative)
Deadline for submitting applications: 07 May 2025
Evaluation of proposals: June – July 2025
Notification of results to applicants: By the end of July 2025
Conclusion of grant agreements: July – October 2025
Starting date of the topic: not earlier than submission of the application
Ending date of the topic: 31 July 2026 at the latest except when duly justified by the
applicant and accepted by the European Parliament.
4. Procedure for submission of proposals
The applications may only be submitted in one of the official languages of the European Union.
However, for reasons of efficiency, we strongly advise you to use English or French for the
application. The supporting documents may be in the language of the country concerned.
Applications must be submitted only electronically via the Funding & Tenders Portal Electronic
Submission System (accessible via the Topic page in the Search Funding & Tenders section).
Paper submissions are NOT possible.
Please note you need to submit your application through the corresponding “Topic” according
to the type of topic you wish to apply as follows:
 Topic 1) Organisation of high-quality master or post-graduate courses in conference
interpreting Topic EP-LINC-SUBV-2025-CONF-INT-01.
 Topic 2) Promotion of excellence in conference interpreter training, cooperation among
universities training conference interpreters and research into technical developments
in the area of conference interpreting Topic EP-LINC-SUBV-2025-CONF-INT-02.
 Topic 3) Organisation of high-quality master, post-graduate courses or bachelor
courses by Ukrainian universities with conference interpreting components Topic EP-
LINC-SUBV-2025-CONF-INT-03.
For further questions, please check the online eGrants Platform Manual
Applications (including annexes and supporting documents) must be submitted using the
forms provided inside the Submission System. Applications must be complete and contain all
parts and mandatory annexes and supporting documents.
- 4 -The Application Form consists of:
 Part A (to be filled in directly online) — contains administrative information about the
participant and the summarised budget for the project. (Mandatory);
 Part B (to be downloaded from the Portal Submission System, completed and then
assembled and re-uploaded as PDF in the system) — contains the application form with
annexes; (Mandatory) and the Annex III - Detailed budget table (to be uploaded Mandatory).
At proposal submission, you will have to confirm that you have the mandate to act for the
applicant (and its affiliates if any). Moreover, you will have to confirm that the information in
the application is correct and complete and that the participants comply with the conditions for
receiving EU funding (especially eligibility, financial and operational capacity, exclusion, etc.).
Before signing the grant each beneficiary will have to confirm this again by signing a
declaration of honour. Your application must be readable, accessible and printable.
For more information about the submission process (including IT aspects), consult the Online
Manual
Applications must be submitted by 06/05/2025. Complete your application sufficiently
in advance of the deadline to avoid any last minute technical problems. Problems due
to last minute submissions (e.g. congestion, etc.) will be entirely at your risk. Call
deadlines can NOT be extended.
5. Eligible applicants
 Higher-Education Institutions, Universities, university institutes, consortia and
associations of universities or institutes, which offer or coordinate postgraduate
courses specialising in conference interpreting.
 Associations, consortia and bodies, whose main mission is to support cooperation and
disseminate best practices in the field of worldwide conference interpreter training.
 For topic 3 only Higher-Education Institutions, Universities, university institutes,
consortia and associations of universities or institutes -which offer or coordinate
master, postgraduate courses or bachelor courses with conference interpreting
components - registered in Ukraine.
Teaching establishments must be approved by their national authorities as public or private
bodies charged with a public task of teaching and organising courses at master or
postgraduate level in the field of conference interpreting. If the applicant is not a teaching
establishment, its mission must nevertheless be related to the objectives of this programme
and be recognised by the national authorities where it is established.
Applicants must be legally established in one of the Member States of the European Union, in
one of the EFTA countries2 or in a candidate country for future membership of the European
Union3.
2 Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland
3 Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Georgia, Moldova, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia, Türkiye
and Ukraine.
- 5 -Applicants must ensure that none of the involved entities are subject to EU restrictive
measures adopted under Article 29 of the Treaty on the European Union (TEU) or Article 215
of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (TFEU)4. The prohibition applies throughout the
whole performance of the Grant Agreement.
6. Exclusion criteria
The authorising officer shall exclude an applicant or affiliated entity from participating in call
for proposals procedures where:
(a) the applicant is bankrupt, subject to insolvency or winding-up procedures, its assets are
being administered by a liquidator or by a court, it is in an arrangement with creditors, its
business activities are suspended, or it is in any analogous situation arising from a similar
procedure provided for under EU or national law;
(b) it has been established by a final judgment or a final administrative decision that the
applicant is in breach of its obligations relating to the payment of taxes or social security
contributions in accordance with the applicable law;
(c) it has been established by a final judgment or a final administrative decision that the
applicant is guilty of grave professional misconduct by having violated applicable laws or
regulations or ethical standards of the profession to which the applicant belongs, or by
having engaged in any wrongful intent or gross negligence, including, in particular, any of
the following:
(i) fraudulently or negligently misrepresenting information required for the verification
of the absence of grounds for exclusion or the fulfilment of eligibility or selection
criteria or in the performance of a contract, a grant agreement or a grant decision;
(ii) entering into agreement with other applicants with the aim of distorting
competition;
(iii) violating intellectual property rights;
(iv) unduly influencing or attempting to unduly influence the decision-making process
to obtain Union funds by taking advantage, through misrepresentation, of a conflict
of interests involving any financial actors or other persons referred to in Article
61(1) of the Regulation (EU, EURATOM) 2024/2509 of the European Parliament
and of the Council;
(v) attempting to obtain confidential information that may confer upon it undue
advantages in the award procedure;
(vi) incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence against a group of persons or a
member of a group or similar activities that are contrary to the values on which the
Union is founded enshrined in Article 2 TEU, where such misconduct has an
impact on the person or entity’s integrity which negatively affects or concretely
risks affecting the performance of the legal commitment;
4 Please note that the EU Official Journal contains the official list of entities subject to restrictive
measures and, in case of conflict, it prevails over the list of the EU Sanctions Map.
- 6 -(d) it has been established by a final judgment that the applicant is guilty of any of the
following:
(i) fraud, within the meaning of Article 3 of Directive (EU) 2017/1371 of the European
Parliament and of the Council and Article 1 of the Convention on the protection of
the European Communities' financial interests, drawn up by the Council Act of 26
July 1995;
(ii) corruption, as defined in Article 4(2) of Directive (EU) 2017/1371 or Article 3 of the
Convention on the fight against corruption involving officials of the European
Communities or officials of Member States of the European Union, drawn up by
the Council Act of 26 May 1997, or conduct referred to in Article 2(1) of Council
Framework Decision 2003/568/JHA, or corruption as defined in the applicable law;
(iii) conduct related to a criminal organisation, as referred to in Article 2 of Council
Framework Decision 2008/841/JHA;
(iv) money laundering or terrorist financing within the meaning of Article 1(3), (4) and
(5) of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council;
(v) terrorist offences or offences related to terrorist activities, as defined in Articles 3
to 12 of Directive (EU) 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of the Council
(53), or inciting, aiding, abetting or attempting to commit such offences, as referred
to in Article 14 of that Directive;
(vi) child labour or other offences concerning trafficking in human beings as referred
to in Article 2 of Directive 2011/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the
Council;
(e) the applicant has shown significant deficiencies in complying with main obligations in the
performance of a contract, a grant agreement or a grant decision financed by the Union's
budget, which has led to its early termination or to the application of liquidated damages
or other contractual penalties, or which has been discovered following checks, audits or
investigations by an authorising officer, the OLAF, the Court of Auditors or the EPPO;
(f) it has been established by a final judgment or final administrative decision that the
applicant has committed an irregularity within the meaning of Article 1(2) of Council
Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95;
(g) it has been established by a final judgement or final administrative decision that the
applicant has created an entity in a different jurisdiction with the intent to circumvent fiscal,
social or any other legal obligations of mandatory application in the jurisdiction of its
registered office, central administration or principal place of business;
(h) it has been established by a final judgement or final administrative decision that an entity
has been created with the intent referred to in point (g);
(i) the entity or person has intentionally and without proper justification resisted an
investigation, check or audit carried out by an authorising officer or its representative or
auditor, OLAF, the EPPO, or the Court of Auditors. It shall be considered that the person
or entity resists an investigation, check or audit when it carries out actions with the goal
or effect of preventing, hindering or delaying the conduct of any of the activities needed
to perform the investigation, check or audit. Such actions shall include, in particular,
refusing to grant the necessary access to its premises or any other areas used for
business purposes, concealing or refusing to disclose information or providing false
information.
- 7 -(j) for the situations referred to in points (c) to (i) above, the applicant is subject to:
(i) facts established in the context of audits or investigations carried out by the EPPO
after its establishment, the Court of Auditors, the European Anti-Fraud Office or
the internal auditor, or any other check, audit or control performed under the
responsibility of an authorising officer of an EU institution, of a European office or
of an EU agency or body;
(ii) non-final judgments or non-final administrative decisions which may include
disciplinary measures taken by the competent supervisory body responsible for
the verification of the application of standards of professional ethics;
(iii) facts referred to in decisions of persons or entities being entrusted with EU budget
implementation tasks;
(iv) information transmitted by Member States implementing Union funds;
(v) decisions of the Commission relating to the infringement of Union competition law
or of a national competent authority relating to the infringement of Union or national
competition law; or
(vi) decisions of exclusion by an authorising officer of an EU institution, of a European
office or of an EU agency or body.
7. Selection criteria
Financial capacity
 Applicants must have stable and adequate financial resources to maintain their
activities during the period of implementation of the topic.
 Financial capacity of associations and consortia must be commensurate with the
scale, duration and the planned execution of expenditure under the proposed topic.
The financial capacity will be evaluated on the basis of the information provided under Annex
IV (financial capacity) of the application form.
Operational capacity
Applicants must have the professional skills and qualification necessary to provide
specialised training at the required professional level. They must have:
 Appropriate human resources, including professional qualified trainers and proven
project management capacities; and
 The logistical infrastructure necessary to complete the project, including the necessary
financial controls.
In addition, associations or consortia must demonstrate that they have the appropriate
organisational capacity or relevant experience to manage projects involving several partners.
The operational capacity will be evaluated on the basis of the information provided by the
candidate in the application form under Section II.7 a) and b) for postgraduate courses or
Section II.3 h) for other projects, and Annex III (Curriculum Vitae).
- 8 -8. Grant award criteria
Only projects which have satisfied the requirements of the eligibility, exclusion and selection
criteria will be considered for further evaluation by the Evaluation Committee on the basis of
the following award criteria.
Topic 1: Related to the organisation of high-quality master or post-graduate courses in
conference interpreting
1. Relevance to the priority needs for languages used at the European Parliament and
the EU institutions and bodies for which it provides interpretation services (see table
below) – max. 25 points;
The aim of DG LINC is to assist the training of interpreters of high quality for the
language combinations for which short-term or long-term needs have been identified.
The language priorities identified are listed in the table below. Applicants should also
consider the language profiles for accreditation tests, which can be found at
http://europa.eu/interpretation/doc/language_profiles.pdf
Priority Active languages (A)
1st Priority DA, EN, GA, MT, UK
2nd Priority BG, DE, EL, FI, SV, PT
3rd Priority CS, ES, FR, HR, HU, IT, NL, SK
4th Priority ET, LT, LV, PL, RO, SL
5th Priority a) candidate country languages: BS, CG, MK, SQ,
TR, SR, KA
b) no-EU official languages: AR, HE, KU, EU
2. Implementation of postgraduate conference interpreting training requirements,
meeting generally accepted quality standards (European Master in Conference
Interpretation or similar) - max 25 points;
Special attention will be given to the following quality criteria:
a) The course must be at post-graduate level. All applicants should have at least a BA
degree or equivalent.
b) The course shall last between one and two academic years and between 60 and 120
ECTS (or equivalent) must be awarded.
c) The course must be run and designed and interpreting classes taught by practicing
conference interpreters.
d) Applicants must pass an aptitude test before being admitted.
e) Students must receive at least 400 hours of training, 70% of which at least must be
devoted to practical interpreter training.
- 9 -f) Self-training should represent at least 400 hours. Interim testing should be organised
(for guidance purposes or for the purposes of elimination).
g) Tuition in the theory of interpreting and other subjects (public speaking, knowledge
about international institutions, basic background knowledge in economics, law and a
module on “EU interpretation” with focus on interpretation for the European Institutions).
h) The final diploma/certificate in conference interpretation should only be awarded if the
candidate's competence in both consecutive and simultaneous interpreting in all working
language combinations has been assessed and judged consistent with requirements for
entry into the profession.
i) The final examination juries should include external assessors who are also practicing
conference interpreters, at least one assessor should have the target language as their A
language.
3. Experience in the field and employment record of graduates for the EU Interpretation
Services and/or contribution to creating and maintaining a sufficient pool of interpreters
for the EU Interpretation Services; – max. 25 points;
4. Use of innovative technologies for training – max. 15 points;
5. Co-operation with other universities (in particular with candidate countries) – max. 5
points;
6. Quality and efficiency of the project management (including appropriateness of the
budget) – max. 5 points.
Maximum total points: 100 points (for newly established courses criterion 3 will not be
applied - maximum total points: 75 points).
Topic 2: Projects aimed at promoting excellence in conference interpreter training,
cooperation among universities training conference interpreters and research into
technical developments in the area of conference interpreting.
1. Quality, innovativeness and usability of the proposed project – max. 35 points;
2. Potential impact on the area of conference interpreting that can be achieved through
the development, dissemination, accessibility and use of the project results, including
potential benefit to the European Parliament and the EU institutions and bodies for
which it provides interpretation services – max. 30 points;
3. Contribution to the objectives and expected results of the grant programme, as
described in the work programme – max. 30 points;
4. Quality and efficiency of the project management (including appropriateness of the
budget) – max. 5 points.
Maximum total points: 100 points
Topic 3: Related to the organisation of master, postgraduate or bachelor courses by
Ukrainian universities with conference interpreting components.
1. Relevance to the priority needs for the Ukrainian language at the European Parliament
and the EU institutions and bodies for which it provides interpretation services – max. 35
points;
- 10 -2. Implementation of conference interpreting training requirements, meeting generally
accepted quality standards - max 25 points;
Special attention will be given to the following quality criteria:
a) For post graduate or master level, the course shall last between one and three
academic years and between 30 and 60 ECTS (or equivalent) must be awarded. For
bachelor level, between 80 and 120 ECTS (or equivalent) must be awarded.
b) Students must receive at least 100 hours of training, 50% of which at least must be
devoted to practical interpreter training.
c) Self-training should represent at least 50 hours.
d) Tuition in the theory of interpreting and other subjects (public speaking, knowledge
about international institutions, basic background knowledge in economics and law).
3. Experience in the field and employment record of graduates for the EU Interpretation
Services and/or contribution to creating and maintaining a sufficient pool of interpreters
for the EU Interpretation Services; – max. 15 points;
4. Use of innovative technologies for training – max. 15 points;
5. Co-operation with other universities – max. 5 points;
6. Quality and efficiency of the project management (including appropriateness of the
budget) – max. 5 points.
Maximum total points: 100 points (for newly established courses criterion 3 will not be
applied - maximum total points: 75 points).
9. Evaluation of proposals and grant award
Proposals will be evaluated by an Evaluation Committee, which is composed of at least three
officials from different units/departments of the European Parliament. The proposals will be
evaluated according to the grant award criteria (see point 8).
To be accepted a proposal should obtain at least 60% of maximum possible points.
The Evaluation Committee will establish three separate lists of accepted applications, ranked
according to their merits:
 One list with project proposals responding to the topic 1
 One list with project proposals responding to the topic 2
 One list with project proposals responding to the topic 3
If needed, the Committee will propose a sub-ranking between applications that are equally
rated. In case budget remains available under one of the topics, it may be re-distributed to the
other topics. Any remaining unused amount is then used to fund remaining above-threshold
proposals submitted to the other topics, in priority order starting from the highest scoring.
- 11 -The Evaluation Committee may conclude not to recommend the co-financing of a project in its
entirety or to reject some items of expenditure of the proposed budget, notably when these
are considered irrelevant to the nature of the project and/or excessive in relation to the volume
of work. The recommendations of the Evaluation Committee, to be properly documented, will
be submitted to the authorising officer for the final award decision.
The applicants will be informed as soon as possible of the outcome of the selection procedure.
10. General principles
a) An application for a grant will not be automatically successful.
b) A topic may only receive one grant from the EU budget (non-cumulative award).
c) A grant is a form of complementary funding, to promote European Union objectives,
based on the principle of co-financing and may not finance the total cost of the topic or
generate profits.
d) Income and expenditure of the proposed budget must be detailed and in balance
and may not have the purpose or effect of generating a profit for the beneficiary. If the
total amount paid as pre-financing by the European Parliament exceeds the final
amount of the grant determined at the end of the topic, any amounts overpaid by the
European Parliament have to be reimbursed by the beneficiary concerned.
e) Only costs directly related and necessary for the topic may be co-financed.
f) The European Parliament’s maximum rate of funding is 75% of total eligible costs.
g) No grant may be awarded retrospectively for topics already started or completed.
However, should a grant be awarded, certain agreed costs incurred by the beneficiary,
before the signature of the agreement are eligible for co-funding (e.g. aptitude tests,
preparation of the course), if they are linked to the programme cycle of the study year
to which the grant is referring, provided that they are included and accepted in the
grant agreement. Costs incurred prior to the submission date of the application are
not eligible for co-funding.
11. Contacts between applicants and institutions
 Before the deadline for the submission of applications
For technical questions on the Portal Submission System, please contact the IT
Helpdesk.
For Non-IT related questions should be sent to the following email address:
LINC.grants@ep.europa.eu , no later than 22/04/2025
The European Parliament will not respond to oral questions or questions submitted
after the deadline (/22/04/2025). In the interest of equal treatment of applicants
questions and answers will be published on the following website:
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/contracts-and-grants/en/grants/interpretation-for-conferences
- 12 - After the deadline for the submission of applications
Where, due to an obvious clerical error on the part of the applicant, the applicant omits
to submit evidence or to make statements, the Evaluation Committee shall, except in
duly justified cases, ask the applicant to provide missing information or clarify
supporting documents. Such information or clarifications shall not substantially change
the proposal or alter the terms of the application.
12. Grant agreement and commitments of beneficiaries
Once a proposal is selected for funding, the beneficiary will receive the grant agreement
(including the project description, the detailed budget and the templates of report forms). Only
the agreement signed by both parties is legally binding.
The grant agreement specifies:
 the total approved budget for the project;
 the maximum amount of the grant;
 the co-funding percentage of the approved eligible budget;
 the reporting requirements;
 the rights and obligations of the parties.
The template of the standard grant agreement of the European Parliament is attached as an
annex to this call for proposals. Applicants are advised to read the standard grant
agreement carefully and to familiarise themselves with the rights and obligations of grant
beneficiaries.
During the execution of the project, the Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation for
Conferences of the European Parliament actively monitors and follows up the project.
The beneficiaries shall:
a) Allow representatives of the European Parliament to participate in examination panels
and project related meetings. This implies that the beneficiary shall organise the project
by taking into account the calendar of Parliament's activities;
b) Inform the Parliament in due time of any event which might affect the implementation
of the project;
c) Provide all detailed data requested by the Parliament for the purposes of the proper
administration of this project.
13. Financial provisions
Once the grant agreement is signed by both parties, the grant will in principle be paid as
follows:
 A single pre-financing: 70% of the amount awarded at the latest 30 days after both
parties have signed the grant agreement;
- 13 - The balance: on completion of the topic and after the European Parliaments’ approval
of the submitted valid final reports (report on the topic's implementation, final financial
report) accompanied by a payment request, in compliance with the non-profit and co-
financing principles and limited to the maximum grant amount, the payment of the
balance is made within 60 days after reception of the cost claim and corresponding
supporting documents and reports.
The amount of the grant does not become final until the operation is completed and a
final statement is presented and accepted.
The final and exact amount of the grant is calculated after the European Parliament’s approval
of the final reports. It is calculated by applying the co-funding rate specified in the grant
agreement to the final total eligible expenditure of the project and can never exceed the
maximum amount set out in the agreement nor can it have the purpose or effect of producing
a profit for the beneficiary.
All report forms to be completed by the beneficiary are annexed to the grant agreement and
sent to the beneficiary in electronic form.
Please consult the guide for applicants for more precise information on eligible costs,
payments, reporting, amendments, conversion of currency etc.
14. Publicity
a) by the beneficiaries:
Beneficiaries must clearly acknowledge the contribution of the European Parliament in all
publications or in conjunction with activities for which the grant is used. Using the following
sentence: This project is co-funded by the European Parliament's 2025 Annual Work
Programme for financial support in conference interpreting training.
The official logo (with disclaimer) and the visual identity of the European Parliament should be
used in all publicity, activities and publications organised within any granted project. More
information on the logo and the visual identity may be found on the webpage of the European
Parliament Download Centre for communication material at:
http://www.europarl.europa.eu/downloadcentre.
b) by the European Parliament:
All information relating to grants awarded in the course of a financial year shall be published
on an internet site of the European Parliament no later than the 30 June of the year following
the financial year in which the grants were awarded.
The European Parliament will publish the following information: the name of the beneficiary,
the town (country) of the beneficiary, the subject of the grant and the amount awarded.
Upon a reasoned and duly substantiated request by the beneficiary, the publication shall be
waived if such disclosure risks threatening the rights and freedoms of individuals concerned
as protected by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union or harm the
commercial interests of the beneficiaries.
- 14 -15. Data Protection
The reply to any call for proposals involves the recording and processing of personal data
(such as name, address and CV). All personal data will be processed in accordance with
Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018
on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the
Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data
(Official Journal L 295/39, 21.11.2018). Your replies to the questions in the application form
are necessary in order to assess your application and they will be processed solely for that
purpose by DG Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences of the European Parliament.
Applying entities have to make sure that they have processed the personal data they transmit
in the framework of the application of this grant in accordance with the applicable data
protection regulation.
Further details about the treatment of personal data are available in the document “Privacy
statement DG LINC grants” which is published in the set of documents for this call for
proposals.
Any questions or requests by data subjects in relation to this processing operation can be
addressed to LINC.grants@ep.europa.eu. The data subjects have the right to lodge a
complaint at any time to the Data Protection Officer of the European Parliament (data-
protection@ep.europa.eu) and to the European Data Protection Supervisor
(edps@edps.europa.eu).
You are informed that, to ensure that the Union’s financial interests are protected, your
personal data may be communicated to internal audit services, the European Court of
Auditors, the body specialising in financial irregularities or the European Anti-Fraud Office
(OLAF) and the Court of Justice.
16. Documents related to this call for proposals
The call documents are available on the following website and assist applicants in preparing
the proposals:
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/contracts-and-grants/en/grants/interpretation-for-conferences
 Privacy statement DG LINC grants
 Application form Topic 1 – post graduate course
 Application form Topic 2 – other projects
 Application form Topic 3 – bachelor or post graduate course by Ukrainian universities
 Staff costs – hourly rate calculation form (annex to the application form)
 Financial identification form editable version (1st page annexed to the application form)
 Guide to financial identification form
 Guide for applicants
 Template of a time sheet
 Questions and answers received during the previous call for proposals
 Grant agreement template
*******
- 15 -Privacy Statement
Articles 15 and 16 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and the
Council of 23 October 2018 apply to the processing of personal data carried out by
the European Parliament.
1) Who processes your personal data?
• The European Parliament, is acting as the controller and the entity
responsible for the processing is European Parliament > Parliament's
Secretariat > Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation for
Conferences > Directorate for Interpretation > Multilingualism and
Succession Planning Unit.
• You can contact the controller/entity at Study visits:
LINC.universities@ep.europa.eu / Grants: LINC.grants@ep.europa.eu
2) What is the purpose of the processing of your personal data?
• Your personal data will be processed in order to guarantee effective
succession planning; DG LINC has established cooperation with
universities and higher education institutes to support them in organising
conference interpreter training. This cooperation consists of various
components: - study visits - grants (controlling grant applications, quality
of teaching staff and contacting applicants) - training support and
monitoring.
3) What is the legal basis for the processing?
• The legal basis for the processing is - Regulation 1/1958, determining the
languages to be used by the European Economic Community - Rule 167 &
168 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament - Code of
Conduct on Multilingualism, Bureau decision of 1 July 2019 - Regulation
(EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council
of 18 July 2018 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of
the Union, Title VIII - Article 5, paragraph 1a) of the Regulation (EU)
2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October
2018 - Lawfulness of processing 1. Processing shall be lawful only if and
to the extent that at least one of the following applies: (a) processing is
necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or
in the exercise of official authority vested in the Union institution or body.
4) What personal data is processed?
• We process your - Study visits: List of participants to organise the visit
(name, passport or ID details, birthday, language combination, email
address, declarations of confidentiality) - Grants: Data concerning careerof staff (in the form of CVs), salaries of employees, bank account and/or
other financial data, contact data (address, telephone, email).
5) How will your personal data be processed?
• We will receive your personal data by email and we will save it in the
Multilingualism and Succession Planning Unit’s “S:” drive to organise the
study visits. - We will have access to the personal data that you register in
the Single Electronic Data Interchange Area for Grants (“Funding and
Tenders Opportunities”). We will manage this data electronically through
this portal. The service responsible for the registration, assessment,
validation and management of the participants in grants at the European
Research Executive Agency (REA) of the European Commission will
access your data through this portal to validate your legal entity and you
Legal Entity’s Appointed Representative (LEAR). We will save the
personal data needed to manage the financial procedure in the
Multilingualism and Succession Planning Unit’s “S:” drive.
6) For how long will your personal data be stored?
Your personal data will be stored for
- Grants: The European Parliament will store your personal data 5 years
after the discharge of the financial year of the call for proposals. The
European Research Executive Agency (REA) will eliminate your personal
data 10 years after the end of the year of the last financial transaction of
the European Parliament last legal commitment (grant agreement)
- Study visits: 1 year after the completion of the visit.
7) Who are the recipients of your personal data?
The recipients of your personal data are
- DG LINC: hierarchical superiors, Members of the Evaluation Committee
- Research Executive Agency (REA) of the European Commission: the service
responsible for validating the Legal Entities of DG LINC grants, DG SAFE: in
the context of study visits (organisation of EP access procedures).
8) Will your personal data be shared with a non-EU country or international
organisation?
• No, your personal data will not be shared with a non-EU country or
international organisation.
9) Are any automated processes and/or profiling used to make decisions
which could affect you?
• No.
10) If personal data have not been obtained from you, what is their source?• The source of your personal data is the University or higher education
institute to which the staff member or student is affiliated
11) What rights do you have?
• You have the following rights:
Right of access to your personal data.
o
Right to rectification of your personal data.
o
Right to erasure of your personal data.
o
Right to restriction of processing.
o
Right to data portability.
o
Right to object to processing.
o
Right to withdraw your consent at any time, without affecting the
o
lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal.
Right to contact the European Parliament’s data protection officer at data-
o
protection@europarl.europa.eu
Right to lodge a complaint with the European Data Protection Supervisor at
edps@edps.europa.eu
*******APPLICATION FORM TOPIC
for a grant funded by the
Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences
(DG LINC) of the European Parliament
Grants for post-graduate/master courses in conference
interpreting 2025-2026
CLOSING DATE FOR SUBMISSION:
7 May 2025
to be submitted electronicallyonly
IMPORTANT NOTICE
What is the Application Form?
The Application Form is the template for EU grants applications; it must be submitted via
the EU Funding & Tenders Portal before the call deadline.
The Form consists of 2 parts:
o Part A contains structured administrative information
o Part B is a narrative description of the action.
Part A is generated by the IT system. It is based on the information which you enter into the
Portal Submission System screens.
Part B needs to be uploaded as PDF (+ annexes) in the Submission System. The
templates to use are available there.
How to prepare and submit it?
The Application Form must be prepared by the beneficiary and submitted by a representative.
Once submitted, you will receive a confirmation.
Complete your application sufficiently in advance of the deadline
to avoid any last minute technical problems. Problems due to last minute submissions (e.g.
congestion, etc.) will be entirely at your risk. Call deadlines can NOT be extended.
European Parliament- Grant Application for post-graduate courses 202 -202Before completing the form electronically, please read the relevant sections on the website
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/contracts-and-grants/en/grants/interpretation-for-conferences
thatcontainadditional information.
Before sending offthe applicationand all its annexes, please control all items by completing the
Check list (on the last page of this form) and verify that the application bears the signature of
the person legally authorised to sign on behalf of the coordinating institution and the stamp of
this institution.
Please note that only the electronicversioncan be considered as validapplication
document.
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 2/28SECTION I - IDENTIFICATION
I.1. Applicant / contracting institution
I.1.1.Legal Representative
Full legal name of the institution in the
national language
Acronym of the institution(if applicable)
Full name of the institution in English
(formal or informal translation)
Website http://
Legal representative of the institution:
Title (optional)
Last name
(e.g. Prof, Dr, etc.)
First name
Department/Unit
Official function within the institution Sex
Legal address of the institution:
Street & Street number
Post code & Town (Country)
Phone (country code/area code/number) +
Mobile phone +
Emailaddress @
I.1.2.Coordinator (project manager) or person responsible for the proposal
The address provided will be used for the acknowledgement of receipt and all further correspondence relating to the project
Coordinator:
Title (optional)
Last name
(e.g. Prof, Dr, etc.)
First name
Department/Unit
Official function within the institution Sex
Correspondence address:
Street& Street number
Post code & Town (Country)
Phone (country code/area code/number) +
Mobile phone +
Emailaddress @
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 3/28I.1.3.Person in charge of finance
Finance officer:
Title (optional)
Last name
(e.g. Prof, Dr, etc.)
First name
Department/Unit
Official function within the institution Sex
Correspondenceaddress:
Street & Street number
Post code & Town (Country)
Phone (country code/area code/number) +
Mobile phone +
Email @
I.1.4.Value Added Tax (VAT)
Pleasespecify your VAT status:
Refundable VAT Always Never Partly Specify here for what type of expenditure:
Exempt from VAT Always Never Partly Specify here for what type of expenditure:
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 4/28I.2. Other participating partner institutions / universities (if applicable)
I.2.1. Add numbers(please continue with No 3) and copies of this page if necessary
Participating institution No 1 = Applicant (information given on page 2 and 3 of the application form)
Participating institution No 2
Full legal name of the institution in the
national language
Full name of the institution in English
(formal or informal translation)
Department/Unit
Legal representative of the institution:
Last name
First name
Contact person:
Last name
First name
Official function within the institution
Legal address of the institution:
Street &Street number
Post code & Town (Country)
Phone (country code/area code/number) +
Mobile phone +
Email @
I.2.2.Project description of participating institution(s)
Please indicate clearly in the project description (Section II of the application form) the tasks to be
executed by eachParticipating institution(i.e. No 2, 3, 4 etc.).
I.2.3. Budget
EXPENDITURE:
Please indicate the costs borne by above listed partner institutions in Section III:
Table 1-"Overview of expected expenditure": Total costs
Table 4-"Details A-G"
INCOME:
The amounts financed by the partner institution(s) partly or totally as contribution to the project should
be indicated in Table 2 -"Overview of expected income"of Section III (under point 3).
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 5/28I.3. Financial support from the European Union
Has the proposal or any aspect or part thereof or any larger project to which it may belong already
been supported directly or indirectly in the last 4 years by an EU institution or agency/body of the
Union?
No
Yes. Please specify.
European Union programme(s):
Title and date of the operation(s):
Year(s) of the award by the European Union(specify by which institution/body):
Amounts of the grant(s) or loan(s):
Is this proposal or any aspect or part thereof or any larger project to which it may belong, currently being
supported under some other European Union programme?
No
Yes. Please specify.
European Union programme(s):
Title and date of the operation(s):
Year(s) of the award by the European Union(specify by which institution/body):
Amounts of the grant(s) or loan(s):
Is this proposal or any aspect or part thereof or any larger project to which it may belong currentlythe
subject of any other application for support from the European Union?
No
Yes. Please specify the programme(s):
N.B. Applicants are required to inform without delay the European Parliament of any request for funding made
to other EU institutions or of any funding approved by them AFTER submission of this grant application.
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 6/28SECTION II - PROJECT DESCRIPTION
FOR POST-GRADUATE COURSES IN CONFERENCE INTERPRETING AND
ACTIVITIES CLOSELY RELATED TO THE COURSE
II.1. Project title (30 words maximum)
e.g. "Post-graduate course of Conference Interpreting - University X 1st and 2nd semester 2025-2026"
II.2. Duration of the action
Please indicate below also the dates including the preparation and finalisation of the action (not only the course start and end
itself). If costs indicated in Section 3 fall outside of the period indicated by you below, they are not eligible for co-funding.
Project commencement and completion dates
Please indicate the period for which the grant is requested, including any preparatory work and time
required for completion and initial dissemination of the final result(s) of the action:
from ........ / ........ / ............(dd/mm/yyyy) to ........ /........ / ............ (dd/mm/yyyy)
Please note that the action should normally start not earlier than the date of the last signature of the
agreement.In any case, it cannot start earlier than the date of submission of the application and should end
no later than 31st July 2026, except when duly justified by the applicant and accepted by the European
Parliament.
II.3. Project description
Please answer ALL questions. Pleaseindicate N/A = not applicable where appropriate.
1. Course type
Undergraduate
Postgraduate:
EMCI
Master
Other
2. Languages and language combinations you intend to offer
A languages:
Blanguages:
C languages:
Language combinations (please check the boxes as appropriate):
A/B A/BC A/CC A/CCC Other:
3. Number of students
Number of studentsexpected:
Minimum number of students required to run the course:
4. Course organisation and structure
a) Total duration of the course (number of semesters):
b) ECTS points given for the full course:
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 7/28c) Brief time schedule of the action. Please indicate approximate dates for:
Advertising/promotion of the course (date/means):
Enrolment deadlines:
Dates of admission tests:
Start of the course:
End of the course:
Weeks of instruction:
Mid-term tests (if applicable):
Final exams:
Resits (if applicable):
d) Brief overview of the course plan (by semester) -for a better understanding please complete the
annexed course plan template"Project Description -Course plan"(see below on page 12-13)
e) Access of students to extracurricular training
f) Fees paid by students for
Admission test:
Enrolment to the course:
Final exams:
5. Access to the course
a) Please mention your selection criteria for access to the admission test
b) What methods of examination do you use for the aptitude tests?
Interview
General knowledge test
Oral reproduction of short speeches
Sight translation
Written translation
Oral presentation
Other (please describe in the comments box below)
Comments:
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 8/28c) Composition of the admission panel
6. Final examination
a) Composition of examination jury and profile of jury members (if available names/external-internal)
b) Which skills are tested during the final exam (please check the boxes as appropriate)?
Consecutive Simultaneous Sight translation
Language 1
Language 2
Language 3
Retour
c) Length of the testspeeches
Consecutive:
Simultaneous:
d) Type(s) of diploma awarded on successful completion of the course:
e) Is the final diploma awarded only if the student passes the test in both simultaneous and
consecutive in all working language combinations?
Yes No
If no, please explain:
7. Describe your operational capacity (e.g. staff, equipment) to implement the
proposed action
a) Staff
Profile of staff involved in the project (indicating name and function and CV).
Please indicate approximately how manyhours each staff devote to this project.
Please provide in addition names and short Curriculum Vitaeof key people performing work in
connection with the project(Annex III).
Administrative staff (if applicable/ ratio between involvement in this specific project and
performance of other tasks)
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 9/28Teaching Staff (please also indicate those who are accredited conference interpreters with EU
institutions or other international organisations and what parts of theprogramme each of them will
teach)
(i) External Teachers
(ii) Internal Teachers
b) Equipment
Number of classrooms:
Number of simultaneous interpreting facilities:
Virtual classes facilities (please specify if consecutive or simultaneous):
c) Do you intend to renew existing equipment or to acquire new equipment for training?
If yes, please describe.
8. Use of technologies for training
a) Pedagogical material and tools you intend to use
Digital speech banks(speech repository, speech pool,etc.)
Specific courseware (for pre-interpreting, consecutive interpreting, simultaneous interpreting,
SI with text, sight translation)
Virtual learning environments (e.g. Moodle etc.)
Virtual classes
Other (please describe in the comments box below)
Comments:
b) Do you intend to develop new tools for training, alone or with partners? If yes, please describe.
9. Cooperation/mobility schemes with other universities/study visits
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 10/28a) Visits of teaching staff from or to other universities
b) Visits of students from or to other universities
c) Virtual mobility
d) Others
10.Explain which measures you will implement in order to monitor and evaluate the
course (e.g. evaluation by students, peer review with other universities,
benchmarking of programmes and course content, etc.)
11.If there are any other aspects of the course you would like to underline, please
describe them briefly.
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 11/28Project Description -Course Plan
Adapt form to your course by deleting or adding rows (you can also create yourown table containing the same kind of information requested)
COURSE/ TEACHER(S) Sem.1 Sem.2 Sem.3 Sem.4 Total Remarks/ Equipment and Pedagogical Approach
MODULE Other per module or course
(Indicate names if hours hours hours hours
available or number of (ECTS) (ECTS) (ECTS) (ECTS) (e.g. lectures, class instruction, e-learning/self-
staff per course) study, teamwork, seminars, booth exercises,
virtual classes etc.)
LINGUISTIC SUBJECTS / LANGUAGES (e.g. Terminology etc. - specify below)
e.g. Mr Smith (EN) 30h (3) 30h (3) N/A N/A 60h (6) Lectures
Terminology Herr Schmidt (DE) 30h (3) 30h (3) 60h (6)
??
??
??
??
??
??
??
TOTAL LINGUISTIC SUBJECTS XX XX XX XX XX
INTERPRETING CLASSES / GUIDED PRACTICE
Consecutive
(without notes)
Consecutive
(without notes)
Consecutive
Consecutive
Consecutive
SUB-TOTAL Consecutive XX XX XX XX XX
Simultaneous
Simultaneous
Simultaneous
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2022-2023Simultaneous
Simultaneous
SUB-TOTAL Simultaneous XX XX XX XX XX
Self-training
??
??
SUB-TOTAL Self-training XX XX XX XX XX
TOTAL INTERPRETING CLASSES XX XX XX XX XX
NON-LINGUISTIC SUBJECTS (e.g. Interpretation theory, Voice coaching, Public speaking, Professional ethics, Stress management, Economics, EU or
International Law, etc.)
??
??
??
??
TOTAL NON-LINGUISTIC SUBJECTS XX XX XX XX XX
TOTAL COURSE / MODULE XX XX XX XX XX
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 13/28SECTION III - BUDGET
Please read carefully the general instructions in the Guide for Applicantsbefore completing this section.
III.1. BUDGET OVERVIEW (based on expected number of students)
The headings in table 1 must be presented in more detail in the corresponding table 4.A-4.G on the following
pages. The Totals of Table 1 and Table 2 must be in balance.
Table 1 - OVERVIEW OF EXPECTED EXPENDITURE
Type of costs Costs (EUR)
A.Staff costs assigned to the operation
B.Travel and subsistence for staff/persons involved in the operation
C.Cost of equipment
D.Cost of consumables and supplies
E.Direct Costs of Conferences, Seminars and Workshops
F.Other direct costs (such as promotion/advertising)
G.General costs (Max. 7% of the eligible budget of chapters A-F)
TOTAL (identical to the total in Table 2)
Table 2 - OVERVIEW OF EXPECTED INCOME
Sources to be specified under Headings 3)-6)
Please indicate expected number of students under Point 4
Income (EUR)
1)Total grant requested from the European Parliament *
2)Contributions by the applicant (institution 1)
3)Contribution from the regular budget of other participating partners
(if applicable)
4)Direct revenue expected from the operation (if applicable)
Fees for admission tests ............ dent
Fees for course ............ dent
Fees for final exams ............ dent
Other fees paid by students ............
Other: ............
5)Support from public (national, regional, etc.) sources, provided
specifically for this project
Please specify the source:
6)Other sources (e.g. private sector, foundations, embassies)
provided specifically for this project
Please specify the source:
TOTAL (identical to the total in Table 1)
*75% of total in Table 1 - to be reduced if total 4), 5) and 6) is more than 25%
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 14/28Table 3 - CONTRIBUTION PER PARTICIPATING PARTNER INSTITUTION (if applicable)
Named in Section I.2. or in ANNEX
For additional participating partner institutions please add an additional Annex "Partners' contribution" as
necessary
All amounts in euros
Coordinating
institution
Describe type of costs/activities Total
(=Participating Participating Participating Participating
institution No 1) institution No 2 institution No 3 institution No....
III.2. Details of Table 4 (Chapter 4.A - Chapter 4.G)
If
Details for table 4.A - Staff costs assigned to the operation
Nature of staff / Staff activity Teaching Hours for Total hours Hourly rate
(please adapt details to the structure of hours preparation incl. social
your project) within the of the courses charges
action period
(cfr. II.2)
(a) (b) (c)= (a)+(b) (d) (e)= (c) x (d)
COORDINATION / ADMINISTRATION
Coordination (name if available)
Administration (name if available)
Sub-total 1
Coordination / Administration
PEDAGOGICAL TASKS
Internal Teachers (names if available) /
Task / Languages taught
Names / task / languages
Names / task / languages
Names / task / languages
Names / task / languages
External Teachers (names if available) /
Task / Languages taught
Names / task / languages
Names / task / languages
Names / task / languages
Names / task / languages
Speakers/referents
Names / task / languages
External Examiners
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 15/28Names / task / languages?
Internal Examiners
Names / task / languages?
External experts
Names / task / languages?
Others (please specify)
Names / task / languages?
Sub-total 2
Pedagogical tasks
TOTAL
Total identical to heading A in Table 1 EUR
Details for table 4.B - Travel and subsistence for staff/persons involved in the operation (e.g. Mobility
schemes related to course)
Number of Average Average Number of Total cost
travellers travel costs subsistence days
Purpose of journey / destination
per journey costs/day
(EUR) (EUR)
(a) (b) (c) (d) (a x b) + (c x d)
Purpose / Name if available / from - to
Total identical to heading B in Table 1 EUR
Details for table 4.C - Cost of equipment
Descri Items Cost of Total Remaining Depreciation Costs Usage Final
ption purchase cost of months of span with rate for costs
or rent/item purchase grant (in months) depreciation action
(EUR) (EUR) action
Example 1: 2 10.000 20.000 11 60 (5 years) 20.000 * 11/60 60% 2.200,00
New booths = 3.666,66
(purchased on
18/09/N-
End of action
foreseen 31/07/N+1)
Example 2: 1 1.200 1.200 8 36 (3 years) 1.200 * 8/36 100% 266,66
Laptop (purchased in = 266,66
24/12/N-
End of action
foreseen 31/07/N+1)
Total identical to heading C in Table 1 EUR
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 16/28Details of table 4.D - Cost of consumables and supplies
Number Cost per item Total cost
Products Description (EUR)
(a) (b) (c)= (a x b)
Total identical to heading D in Table 1 EUR
Details of table 4.E - Direct costs of Conferences, Seminars and Workshops
E.1 - Organisation costs
Number of items Cost per item (EUR) Total cost
Description
(a) (b) (a x b)
Total E.1 EUR
E.2 - Travel and subsistence costs of participants and speakers (workshops / conferences)
Number of Average travel Average Number of Total cost
return journeys costs per subsistence days
Purpose of journey journey costs per day
(EUR) (EUR)
(a) (b) (c) (d) (a x b)+(c x d)
Total E.2 EUR
Total E1 + E2 identical to heading E in Table 1 EUR
Details of table 4.F - Other direct costs
Number of items Cost per item (EUR) Total cost
Description
(a) (b) (a x b)
Total identical to heading F in Table 1 EUR
Details of table 4.G - General Costs (Max. 7% of the eligible budget of chapters A-F)
Description
Flat rate of 7% on the direct costs (A-F)
Total identical to heading G in Table 1 EUR
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 17/28SECTION IV - ANNEXES
EACH ANNEX
(I V)
MUST BE COMPLETED
BY TICKING / COMPLETING THE APPROPRIATE BOXES
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 18/28FINANCIAL IDENTIFICATION FORM
Please complete the form electronically, in capital letters and only in LATIN characters
for accounting and contractual purposes. Protection of personal data (LINK)
LEGAL ENTITY TYPE LEGAL ENTITY WITH VAT NATURAL PERSON
Group of Economic Operators WITHOUT Legal Entity(1)
VAT-NUMBER(2)
LEGAL ENTITY
LEGAL FORM
ORGANIZATION NAME(3)
NATURAL PERSON
FIRST NAME
LAST NAME(4)
ADDRESS
STREET
NUMBER POSTAL CODE
TOWN / CITY COUNTRY
EMAIL
BANK
BANK NAME
ACCOUNT HOLDER NAME
(The name under which the account has been opened)
IBAN
(Obligatory,if the IBAN Code exists in the country where your bank is established)
SWIFT CODE (BIC) CURRENCY
Account Holder's address is different from the legal entity's address stated above.
STREET
NUMBER POSTAL CODE
TOWN / CITY COUNTRY
I do not have IBAN number.
ACCOUNT NUMBER
(National format)
OTHER BANK IDENTIFIER
Only for Legal Entity Representatives
POSITION/ROLE
FIRST NAME
LAST NAME
DATE
By checking this box, I confirm that the information provided above is accurate and complete.
This form will only be accepted if the following required documents are attached:
1. Proof of banking information: A document certifying your banking identity: RIB or a recent bank
statement (dated within the last six months) showing the account holder's name, account number/
IBAN, BIC/Swift code, and bank name. You may redact any other information on the statement.
2. Identification: Natural person - a copy of your ID card; Legal Entity – a copy of an official document
with the company name, VAT and Address.
(1)A group of economic operators is not considered as a supplier. It can have its own denomination. A leader is nominated to represent the group - the leader must be registered with all its details. If this option is selected, please, select Legal
Entity without VAT and fill out the Legal Entity Section to include the group of economic operators' information.
(2)Intra-Community VAT number (country code plus number)
(3)For companies or bodies official name.
(4)For natural persons: family name as stated in official documents.Editable version:
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/contracts-and-
grants/en/grants/interpretation-for-conferences
Guide to Financial identification Form:
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/contracts-and-
grants/en/grants/interpretation-for-conferences
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 19/28ANNEX II
Recognition by the National Ministry
The institution / university / body mentioned on page 2 is not a
new applicant and is approved by the national authorities as public
or private body charged with a public task of teaching and organising
courses by the national authorities.
or
As a new applicant we enclose the above mentioned proof.
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 20/28ANNEX III
CURRICULUM VITAE
Short Curriculum Vitae of teaching and coordination
staff performing work in connection with the project.
Please mention interpreting practice/accreditation if
applicable.
(see SECTION II. Point II.3.(7a))
Please find enclosed the CVs of the following persons:
Names:
If possible, follow the Europass model:
http://europass.cedefop.europa.eu/en/documents/curriculum-vitae
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 21/28ANNEX IV
FINANCIAL CAPACITY
As our university / institution is a public body, the assessment of
financial capacity does not apply.
Please find enclosed the balance sheets / final financial year
report of the last closed financial year.
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 22/28ANNEX V
Detailed calculations of hourly rates
See Excel sheet on the web-site:
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/contracts-and-grants/en/grants/interpretation-
for-conferences
Please find enclosed the required calculations
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 23/28SECTION V - DECLARATION
To be completed by the person legally authorised to sign on behalf of the requesting / contracting institution.
I, the undersigned, authorised to represent the applicant, hereby request from the European
1
Parliament a grant of EUR with a view to implementing the action on the terms laid down
in this application.
I certify that the information contained in this application, including Section 2 (project description) and
the annexes is correct and complete and that the applicant has not received any other Union funding
to carry out the action which is the subject of this grant application.
I confirm that my institution has the financial and operational capacity to complete the proposed project.
I certify on my honour that the applicant is not in one of the situations which would exclude it from
receiving Union grants and accordingly declare that the applicant:
(a) is not bankrupt, subject to insolvency or winding-up procedures, its assets are not being
administered by a liquidator or by a court, it is not in an arrangement with creditors, its business
activities are not suspended, or it is not in any analogous situation arising from a similar procedure
provided for under EU or national law;
(b) has not been established by a final judgment or a final administrative decision that the applicant is
in breach of its obligations relating to the payment of taxes or social security contributions in
accordance with the applicable law;
(c) has not been established by a final judgment or a final administrative decision that the applicant is
guilty of grave professional misconduct by having violated applicable laws or regulations or ethical
standards of the profession to which the applicant belongs, or by having engaged in any wrongful
intent or gross negligence, including, in particular, any of the following:
(i) fraudulently or negligently misrepresenting information required for the verification of the
absence of grounds for exclusion or the fulfilment of eligibility or selection criteria or in the
performance of a contract, a grant agreement or a grant decision;
(ii) entering into agreement with other applicants with the aim of distorting competition;
(iii) violating intellectual property rights;
(iv) unduly influencing or attempting to unduly influence the decision-making process to obtain
Union funds by taking advantage, through misrepresentation, of a conflict of interests
involving any financial actors or other persons referred to in Article 61(1) of the Regulation
(EU, EURATOM) 2024/2509 of the European Parliament and of the Council;
(v) attempting to obtain confidential information that may confer upon it undue advantages in the
award procedure;
(vi) incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence against a group of persons or a member of a
group or similar activities that are contrary to the values on which the Union is founded
enshrined in Article 2 TEU, wher
integrity which negatively affects or concretely risks affecting the performance of the legal
commitment;
(d) has not been established by a final judgment being guilty of any of the following:
(i) fraud, within the meaning of Article 3 of Directive (EU) 2017/1371 of the European Parliament
and of the Council and Article 1 of the Convention on the protection of the European
Communities' financial interests, drawn up by the Council Act of 26 July 1995;
(ii) corruption, as defined in Article 4(2) of Directive (EU) 2017/1371 or Article 3 of the Convention
on the fight against corruption involving officials of the European Communities or officials of
Member States of the European Union, drawn up by the Council Act of 26 May 1997, or
1The amount requested should be the same amount in all relevant documents:
Section III / III.1 Budget overview / Table 2 -OVERVIEW OF EXPECTED INCOME / Total grant requested
from the European Parliament and in PART A / 3 Budget -Requested EU contribution to eligible costs
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 24/28conduct referred to in Article 2(1) of Council Framework Decision 2003/568/JHA, or corruption
as defined in the applicable law;
(iii) conduct related to a criminal organisation, as referred to in Article 2 of Council Framework
Decision 2008/841/JHA;
(iv) money laundering or terrorist financing within the meaning of Article 1(3), (4) and (5) of
Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council;
(v) terrorist offences or offences related to terrorist activities, as defined in Articles 3 to 12 of
Directive (EU) 2017/541 of the European Parliament and of the Council (53), or inciting,
aiding, abetting or attempting to commit such offences, as referred to in Article 14 of that
Directive;
(vi) child labour or other offences concerning trafficking in human beings as referred to in Article
2 of Directive 2011/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council;
(e) has not shown significant deficiencies in complying with main obligations in the performance of a
contract, a grant agreement or a grant decision financed by the Union's budget, which has led to
its early termination or to the application of liquidated damages or other contractual penalties, or
which has been discovered following checks, audits or investigations by an authorising officer, the
OLAF,the Court of Auditors or the EPPO;
(f) has not been established by a final judgment or final administrative decision of being committed an
irregularity within the meaning of Article 1(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95;
(g) has not been established by a final judgement or final administrative decision of having created an
entity in a different jurisdiction with the intent to circumvent fiscal, social or any other legal
obligations of mandatory application, including those related to working rights, employment and
labour conditions, in the jurisdiction of its registered office, central administration or principal place
of business;
(h) has not been established by a final judgement or final administrative decision having created an
entity with the intent referred to in point (g);
(i) the entity or person has not intentionally and without proper justification resisted an investigation,
check or audit carried out by an authorising officer or its representative or auditor, the OLAF, the
EPPO, or the Court of Auditors. It shall be considered that the person or entity resists an
investigation, check or audit when it carries out actions with the goal or effect of preventing,
hindering or delaying the conduct of any of the activities needed to perform the investigation, check
or audit. Such actions shall include, in particular, refusing to grant the necessary access to its
premises or any other areas used for business purposes, concealing or refusing to disclose
information or providing false information.
(j) for the situationsreferred to in points (c) to (i) above, not being subject to:
(i) facts established in the context of audits or investigations carried out by the EPPO, the Court
of Auditors, the OLAF or the internal auditor, or any other check, audit or control performed
under the responsibility of an authorising officer of an EU institution, of a European office or
of an EU agency or body;
(ii) non-final judgments or non-final administrative decisions which may include disciplinary
measures taken by the competent supervisory body responsible for the verification of the
application of standards of professional ethics;
(iii) facts referred to in decisions of persons or entities being entrusted with EU budget
implementation tasks;
(iv) information transmitted by Member States implementing Union funds;
(v) decisions of the Commission relating to the infringement of Union competition law or of a
national competent authority relating to the infringement of Union or national competition law;
or
(vi) decisions of exclusion by an authorising officer of an EU institution, of a European office or of
an EU agency or body.
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 25/28I have been informed that, under the Regulation (EU, EURATOM) 2024/2509 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 23 September 2024 on the financial rules applicable to the general
2
budget of the Union , applicants found guilty of misrepresentation may be subject to administrative
and financial penalties in accordance with the conditions laid down in that Regulation.
Please refer to articles137-143:
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=OJ:L_202402509
I declare that the applicant is fully eligible in accordance with the criteria set out in the specific call for
proposals; has not misrepresented the information required as a condition for participating in the
procedure,has not failed to supply that information,andhas no professional conflicting interests which
may negatively affect the performance of the action.
I declare that neither natural or legal persons that are members of the administrative, management or
supervisory body of the applicantor that have powers of representation, decision or control with regard
to the applicant, nor beneficial owners of the applicant, as defined in Article 3, point (6), of Directive
(EU) 2015/849, are in one of the exclusion situations referred to underpoints (c) to (h)above.
I certify that the applicant has the financial and operational capacity to carry out the proposed action.
If selected to be awarded a grant, the applicant accepts the standard conditions as laid down in the
grant agreement publicly available.
In the event that my grant application is successful, I authorise the European Parliament to publish on
its internet site or in any other appropriate medium:
The name and address of the beneficiary of the grant;
The subject of the grant;
The amount awarded and the rate of funding of the costs of the approved work programme.
I confirm that I will immediately inform the European Parliament of any changes to the
application since its submission.
Place: Date (day/month/year) / /
Signature
Stamp of the applicant / contracting Institution
3
Name and position in capitals
2 Official Journal of European Union L series of 26/09/2024 Articles 137-144; 199
3 If the above signatory is different from the legal representative named in Section 1.1, please provide proof of the legal authority to
sign on behalf of the university
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 26/28The reply to any call for proposals involves the recording and processing of personal data (such as
name, address and CV). All personal data will be processed in accordance with Regulation (EU)
2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the protection of
natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies,
offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data (Official JournalL295/39, 21.11.2018).
Your replies to the questions in the application form are necessary in order to assess your application
and they will be processed solely for that purpose by DG Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences
of the European Parliament. Applying entities have to make sure that they have processed the
personal data they transmit in the framework of the application of this grant in accordance with the
applicable data protection regulation.
Further details about the treatment of personal data are available i
Any questions or requests by data subjects in relation to this processing operation can be addressed
to LINC.grants@ep.europa.eu. The data subjects have the right to lodge a complaint at any time to
the Data Protection Officer of the European Parliament (data-protection@ep.europa.eu) and to the
European Data Protection Supervisor (edps@edps.europa.eu).
You are informedthat, to ensure that the Union
may be communicated to internal audit services, the European Court of Auditors, the body
specialising in financial irregularities or the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and the Court of
Justice.
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 27/28Checklist
The application form is dated and signed
The application will be submitted electronically only via the EU Funding & Tenders Portal
at the very latest on 7 May 2025
Following documents are fully completed (all questions if applicable are answered) and
included:
Section I:Identification completed
Section II: Project Description completed
and Annex "Project description -Course plan"
Section III: Budget section completed
Section IV: 5Annexes (Annex I -Annex V) completed
Section V: Declaration signed and dated
The budgetis:
completed in Section III (including number of students expected to participate)
complemented by the details on the calculation of the hourly rates (Annex V)
indicated in Euros (see site https://commission.europa.eu/funding-tenders/procedures-
guidelines-tenders/information-contractors-and-beneficiaries/exchange-rate-
inforeuro_en)
excluding VAT (if recovery if possible or if exemption of VAT)
in balance (for revenue and income)
realistic and detailed
covering the whole period indicated in 2.2.
double-checked for calculation errors
If applicable: Partner institution(s)(see Section I.2), their tasks, work plan and budgetary
contribution are clearly mentioned
The same grant amountis requested on
Section III / III.1 Budget overview / Table 2 -OVERVIEW OF EXPECTED INCOME /
Total grant requested from the European Parliament and in
Section V- Declarationas well as in
PART A / 3 Budget -Requested EU contribution to eligible costs
European Parliament - Grant Application for post-graduate courses 2025-2026 2 8/28ANNEX II
GENERAL CONDITIONS
TABLE OF CONTENT
PART A – LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
II.1 – GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF THE BENEFICIARY
II.2 – COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE PARTIES
II.3 – LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES
II.4 – CONFLICT OF INTERESTS
II.5 – CONFIDENTIALITY
II.6 – PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
II.7 – VISIBILITY OF UNION FUNDING
II.8 – PRE-EXISTING RIGHTS AND OWNERSHIP AND USE OF THE RESULTS
(INCLUDING INTELLECTUAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY RIGHTS)
II.9 – AWARD OF CONTRACTS NECESSARY FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
ACTION
II.10 – SUBCONTRACTING OF TASKS FORMING PART OF THE ACTION
II.11 – FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO THIRD PARTIES
II.12 – AMENDMENTS TO THE AGREEMENT
II.13 – ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS FOR PAYMENTS TO THIRD PARTIES
II.14 – FORCE MAJEURE
II.15 – SUSPENSION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ACTION
II.16 – TERMINATION OF THE AGREEMENT
II.17 – ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL PENALTIES
II.18 – APPLICABLE LAW, SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES AND ENFORCEABLE DECISION
PART B – FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
II.19 – ELIGIBLE COSTS
II.20 – IDENTIFIABILITY AND VERIFIABILITY OF THE AMOUNTS DECLARED
II.21 – ELIGIBILITY OF COSTS OF ENTITIES AFFILIATED TO THE BENEFICIARY
II.22 – BUDGET TRANSFERS
II.23 – TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL REPORTING – REQUESTS FOR PAYMENT AND
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
II.24 – PAYMENTS AND PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS
II.25 – DETERMINING THE FINAL AMOUNT OF THE GRANT
II.26 – RECOVERY
II.27 – CHECKS, AUDITS AND EVALUATION
Page 1 of 29ARTICLE II.1 – GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF THE BENEFICIARY
The beneficiary shall:
(a) be responsible for carrying out the action in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the Agreement;
(b) be responsible for complying with any legal obligations incumbent on it;
(c) inform the Parliament immediately of any change likely to affect or delay the
implementation of the action of which the beneficiary is aware;
(d) inform the Parliament immediately of any change in its legal, financial, technical,
organisational or ownership situation and of any change in its name, address or legal
representative;
ARTICLE II.2 – COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN THE PARTIES
II.2.1 Form and means of communications
Any communication relating to the Agreement or to its implementation shall be made in
writing (in paper or electronic form), shall bear the number of the Agreement and shall be
made using the communication details identified in Article I.6.
Electronic communications shall be confirmed by an original signed paper version of that
communication if requested by any of the parties provided that this request is submitted
without unjustified delay. The sender shall send the original signed paper version without
unjustified delay.
Formal notifications shall be made by registered mail with return receipt or equivalent, or by
equivalent electronic means.
II.2.2 Date of communications
Any communication is deemed to have been made when it is received by the receiving party,
unless the agreement refers to the date when the communication was sent.
Electronic communication is deemed to have been received by the receiving party on the day
of successful dispatch of that communication, provided that it is sent to the addressees listed
in Article I.6. Dispatch shall be deemed unsuccessful if the sending party receives a
message of non-delivery. In this case, the sending party shall immediately contact the unit
mentioned under Article I.6 by telephone. In case of unsuccessful dispatch, the sending party
shall not be held in breach of its obligation to send such communication within a specified
deadline.
Mail sent to the Parliament using the postal services is considered to have been received by
the Parliament on the date on which it is registered by the department identified in Article
I.6.2.
Formal notifications made by registered mail with return receipt or equivalent, or by
equivalent electronic means, shall be considered to have been received by the receiving
party on the date of receipt indicated on the return receipt or equivalent.
Page 2 of 29ARTICLE II.3 – LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES
II.3.1 The Parliament shall not be held liable for any damage caused or sustained by the
beneficiary, including any damage caused to third parties as a consequence of or
during the implementation of the action.
II.3.2 Except in cases of force majeure, the beneficiary shall compensate the Parliament for
any damage sustained by it as a result of the implementation of the action or because
the action was not implemented or implemented poorly, partially or late.
ARTICLE II.4 - CONFLICT OF INTERESTS
II.4.1 The beneficiary shall take all necessary measures to prevent any situation where the
impartial and objective implementation of the Agreement is compromised for reasons
involving economic interest, political or national affinity, family or emotional ties or any
other shared interest (“conflict of interests”).
II.4.2 Any situation constituting or likely to lead to a conflict of interests during the
implementation of the Agreement shall be notified to the Parliament, in writing,
without delay. The beneficiary shall immediately take all the necessary steps to rectify
this situation. The Parliament reserves the right to verify that the measures taken are
appropriate and may require additional measures to be taken within a specified
deadline.
ARTICLE II.5 – CONFIDENTIALITY
II.5.1 The Parliament and the beneficiary shall preserve the confidentiality of any
information and documents, in any form, which are disclosed in writing or orally in
relation to the implementation of the Agreement and which are explicitly indicated in
writing as confidential.
II.5.2 The beneficiary shall not use confidential information and documents for any reason
other than fulfilling its obligations under the Agreement, unless otherwise agreed with
the Parliament in writing.
II.5.3 The Parliament and the beneficiary shall be bound by the obligations referred to in
Articles II.5.1 and II.5.2 during the implementation of the Agreement and for a period
of five years starting from the payment of the balance, unless:
(a) the concerned party agrees to release the other party from the confidentiality
obligations earlier;
(b) the confidential information becomes public through other means than in breach
of the confidentiality obligation through disclosure by the party bound by that
obligation;
(c) the disclosure of the confidential information is required by law.
Page 3 of 29ARTICLE II.6 – PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
II.6.1 Processing of personal data by the Parliament
Any personal data included in the Agreement shall be processed by the Parliament pursuant
to Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October
2018 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by
the Union institutions,bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data.
Such data shall be processed by the data controller identified in Article I.6.1 solely for the
purposes of the implementation, management and monitoring of the Agreement, without
prejudice to possible transmission to the bodies charged with the monitoring or inspection
tasks in application of Union law.
The beneficiary shall have the right of access to his/her personal data and the right to rectify
any such data. Should the beneficiary have any queries concerning the processing of his/her
personal data, he/she shall address them to the data controller, identified in Article I.6.1.
The beneficiary shall have the right of recourse at any time to the European Data Protection
Supervisor.
II.6.2 Processing of personal data by the beneficiary
When personal processing personal data in in relation to this grant, the beneficiary has to
respect the data protection regulation applicable to it, in particular Regulation (EU) 2016/679,
as well as Regulation (EU) No 2018/1725. In particular, the beneficiary undertakes to obtain
and document the consent of data subjects whose data it is processing for the purpose of
this grant, where required by the applicable regulations.
Where the Agreement requires the processing of personal data by the beneficiary, the
beneficiary may act only under the supervision of the data controller identified in Article I.6.1,
in particular with regard to the purpose of the processing, the categories of data which may
be processed, the recipients of the data and the means by which the data subject may
exercise his or her rights.
The access to data that the beneficiary grants to its personnel shall be limited to the extent
strictly necessary for the implementation, management and monitoring of the Agreement.
The beneficiary undertakes to adopt appropriate technical and organisational security
measures having regard to the risks inherent in the processing and to the nature of the
personal data concerned, in order to:
(a) prevent any unauthorised person from gaining access to computer systems processing
personal data, and especially:
(i) unauthorised reading, copying, alteration or removal of storage media;
(ii)unauthorised data input as well as any unauthorised disclosure, alteration or erasure
of stored personal data;
(iii) unauthorised persons from using data-processing systems by means of data
transmission facilities;
Page 4 of 29(b) ensure that authorised users of a data-processing system can access only the personal
data to which their access right refers;
(c) record which personal data have been communicated, when and to whom;
(d) ensure that personal data being processed on behalf of third parties can be processed
only in the manner prescribed by the Parliament;
(e) ensure that, during communication of personal data and transport of storage media, the
data cannot be read, copied or erased without authorisation;
(f) design its organisational structure in such a way that it meets data protection
requirements.
ARTICLE II.7 – VISIBILITY OF UNION FUNDING
II.7.1 Information on Union funding and use of European Union emblem
Unless the Parliament requests or agrees otherwise, any communication or publication
related to the action, made by the beneficiary, including at conferences, seminars or in any
information or promotional materials (such as brochures, leaflets, posters, presentations,
etc.), shall indicate that the action has received funding from the Union and shall display the
European Union emblem.
When displayed in association with another logo, the European Union emblem must have
appropriate prominence.
The obligation to display the European Union emblem does not confer to the beneficiary a
right of exclusive use. The beneficiary shall not appropriate the European Union emblem or
any similar trademark or logo, either by registration or by any other means.
For the purposes of the first, second and third subparagraphs and under the conditions
specified therein, the beneficiary is exempted from the obligation to obtain prior permission
from the Parliament to use the European Union emblem.
II.7.2 Disclaimers excluding Parliament responsibility
Any communication or publication related to the action, made by the beneficiary in any form
and using any means, shall indicate that it reflects only the author's view and that the
Parliament is not responsible for any use that may be made of the information it contains.
ARTICLE II.8 – PRE-EXISTING RIGHTS AND OWNERSHIP AND USE OF THE RESULTS
(INCLUDING INTELLECTUAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY RIGHTS)
II.8.1 Ownership of the results by the beneficiary
Unless stipulated otherwise in the Agreement, ownership of the results of the action,
including industrial and intellectual property rights, and of the reports and other documents
relating to it, shall be vested in the beneficiary.
II.8.2 Pre-existing industrial and intellectual property rights
Page 5 of 29Where industrial and intellectual property rights, including rights of third parties, exist prior to
the conclusion of the Agreement, the beneficiary shall establish a list which shall specify all
rights of ownership and use of the pre-existing industrial and intellectual property rights and
disclose it to the Parliament at the latest before the commencement of implementation.
The beneficiary shall ensure that it or its affiliated entities have all the rights to use any pre-
existing industrial and intellectual property rights during the implementation of the
Agreement.
II.8.3 Rights of use of the results and of pre-existing rights by the Union
Without prejudice to Articles II.1, II.3 and II.8.1, the beneficiary grants the Union the right to
use the results of the action for the following purposes:
(a) use for its own purposes, and in particular, making available to persons working for the
Parliament, other Union institutions, agencies and bodies and to Member States'
institutions, as well as, copying and reproducing in whole or in part and in unlimited
number of copies;
(b) distribution to the public, and in particular, publication in hard copies and in electronic
or digital format, publication on the internet, including on the Europa website, as a
downloadable or non-downloadable file, broadcasting by any kind of technique of
transmission, public display or presentation, communication through press information
services, inclusion in widely accessible databases or indexes;
(c) translation;
(d) giving access upon individual requests without the right to reproduce or exploit, as
provided for by Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and
Commission documents;
(e) storage in paper, electronic or other format;
(f) archiving in line with the document management rules applicable to the Parliament;
(g) rights to authorise or sub-licence the modes of exploitation set out in points (b) and (c)
to third parties.
Additional rights of use for the Union may be provided for in the Special Conditions.
The beneficiary shall warrant that the Union has the right to use any pre-existing industrial
and intellectual property rights, which have been included in the results of the action. Unless
specified otherwise in the Special Conditions, those pre-existing rights shall be used for the
same purposes and under the same conditions applicable to the rights of use of the results of
the action.
Information about the copyright owner shall be inserted when the result is divulged by the
Union. The copyright information shall read: "© – year – name of the copyright owner. All
rights reserved. Licenced to the European Union under conditions."
Page 6 of 29ARTICLE II.9 – AWARD OF CONTRACTS NECESSARY FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF THE ACTION
II.9.1 Where the implementation of the action requires the procurement of goods, works or
services, the beneficiary shall award the contract to the tender offering best value for
money or, as appropriate, to the tender offering the lowest price. In doing so, it shall
avoid any conflict of interests.
A beneficiary acting in its capacity of a contracting authority within the meaning of
Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February
2014 on the coordination of procedures for the award of public work contracts, public
supply contracts and public service contracts or a contracting entity within the
meaning of Directive 2014/25/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26
February 2014 coordinating the procurement procedures of entities operating in the
water, energy, transport and postal services sectors shall abide by the applicable
national public procurement rules.
II.9.2 The beneficiary shall retain sole responsibility for carrying out the action and for
compliance with the provisions of the Agreement. The beneficiary shall ensure that
any procurement contract contains provisions stipulating that the contractor has no
rights vis-à-vis the Parliament under the Agreement.
II.9.3 The beneficiary shall ensure that the conditions applicable to it under Articles II.3, II.4,
II.5, II.8 and II.27 are also applicable to the contractor.
ARTICLE II.10 – SUBCONTRACTING OF TASKS FORMING PART OF THE ACTION
II.10.1 A "subcontract" is a procurement contract within the meaning of Article II.9, which
covers the implementation by a third party of tasks forming part of the action as
described in Annex I.
II.10.2 The beneficiary may subcontract tasks forming part of the action, provided that, in
addition to the conditions specified in Article II.9 and the Special Conditions, the
following conditions are complied with:
(a) subcontracting only covers the implementation of a limited part of the action;
(b) recourse to subcontracting is justified having regard to the nature of the action
and what is necessary for its implementation;
(c) the estimated costs of the subcontracting are clearly identifiable in the
estimated budget set out in Annex III;
(d) any recourse to subcontracting, if not provided for in Annex I, is communicated
by the beneficiary and approved by the Parliament without prejudice to Article
II.12.2;
(e) the beneficiary ensures that the conditions applicable to it under Article II.7 are
also applicable to the subcontractor.
Page 7 of 29ARTICLE II.11 - FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO THIRD PARTIES
II.11.1 Where the implementation of the action requires giving financial support to third
parties, the beneficiary shall give such financial support in accordance with the
conditions specified in Annex I, which shall at least contain:
(a) the maximum amount of financial support, which shall not exceed EUR 60 000
for each third party except where the financial support is the primary aim of the
action as specified in Annex I;
(b) the criteria for determining the exact amount of the financial support;
(c) the different types of activity that may receive financial support, on the basis of
a fixed list;
(d) the definition of the persons or categories of persons which may receive
financial support;
(e) the criteria for giving the financial support.
II.11.2 By way of derogation from Article II.11.1, in case the financial support takes the form
of a prize, the beneficiary shall give such financial support in accordance with the
conditions specified in Annex I, which shall at least contain:
(a) the conditions for participation;
(b) the award criteria;
(c) the amount of the prize;
(d) the payment arrangements.
II.11.3 The beneficiary shall ensure that the conditions applicable to it under Articles II.3,
II.4, II.5, II.7, II.8 and II.27 are also applicable to the third parties receiving financial
support.
ARTICLE II.12 – AMENDMENTS TO THE AGREEMENT
II.12.1 Any amendment to the Agreement shall be made in writing.
II.12.2 An amendment may not have the purpose or the effect of making changes to the
Agreement which would call into question the decision awarding the grant or be
contrary to the equal treatment of applicants.
II.12.3 Any request for amendment shall be duly justified and shall be sent to the other
party in due time before it is due to take effect, and in any case one month before
the end of the period set out in Article I.2.2, except in cases duly substantiated by
the party requesting the amendment and accepted by the other party.
II.12.4 In case of an operating grant the period set out in Article I.2.2 shall not be extended
via amendments.
Page 8 of 29II.12.5 Amendments shall enter into force on the date on which the last party signs or on
the date of approval of the request for amendment.
Amendments shall take effect on a date agreed by the parties or, in the absence of
such an agreed date, on the date on which the amendment enters into force.
ARTICLE II.13 – ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS FOR PAYMENTS TO THIRD PARTIES
II.13.1 Claims for payments of the beneficiary against the Parliament may not be assigned
to third parties, except in duly justified cases where the situation warrants it.
The assignment shall only be enforceable against the Parliament if it has accepted
the assignment on the basis of a written and reasoned request to that effect made
by the beneficiary. In the absence of such an acceptance, or in the event of failure to
observe the terms thereof, the assignment shall have no effect on the Parliament.
II.13.2 In no circumstances shall such an assignment release the beneficiary from its
obligations towards the Parliament.
ARTICLE II.14 – FORCE MAJEURE
II.14.1 "Force majeure" shall mean any unforeseeable exceptional situation or event
beyond the parties' control, which prevents either of them from fulfilling any of their
obligations under the Agreement, which was not attributable to error or negligence
on their part or on the part of subcontractors, affiliated entities or third parties
involved in the implementation and which proves to be inevitable in spite of
exercising all due diligence. Any default of a service, defect in equipment or material
or delays in making them available, unless they stem directly from a relevant case of
force majeure, as well as labour disputes, strikes or financial difficulties cannot be
invoked as force majeure.
II.14.2 A party faced with force majeure shall formally notify the other party without delay,
stating the nature, likely duration and foreseeable effects.
II.14.3 The parties shall take the necessary measures to limit any damage due to force
majeure. They shall do their best to resume the implementation of the action as
soon as possible.
II.14.4 The party faced with force majeure shall not be held to be in breach of its obligations
under the Agreement if it has been prevented from fulfilling them by force majeure.
ARTICLE II.15 – SUSPENSION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ACTION
II.15.1 Suspension of the implementation by the beneficiary
The beneficiary may suspend the implementation of the action or any part thereof if
exceptional circumstances make such implementation impossible or excessively difficult, in
particular in the event of force majeure. The beneficiary shall inform the Parliament without
delay, giving all the necessary reasons and details and the foreseeable date of resumption.
Page 9 of 29Unless the Agreement is terminated in accordance with Article II.16.1 or points (b) or (c) of
Article II.16.2.1, the beneficiary shall, once the circumstances allow resuming the
implementation of the action, inform the Parliament immediately and present a request for
amendment of the Agreement as provided for in Article II.15.3.
II.15.2 Suspension of the implementation by the Parliament
II.15.2.1 The Parliament may suspend the implementation of the action or any part thereof:
(a) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary has committed
substantial errors, irregularities or fraud in the award procedure or in the
implementation of the Agreement or if the beneficiary fails to comply with its
obligations under the Agreement;s
(b) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary has committed systemic
or recurrent errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations under other
grants funded by the Union or the European Atomic Energy Community
which were awarded to the beneficiary under similar conditions, provided
that those errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations have a
material impact on this grant; or
(c) if the Parliament suspects substantial errors, irregularities, fraud or breach
of obligations committed by the beneficiary in the award procedure or in the
implementation of the Agreement and needs to verify whether they have
actually occurred.
II.15.2.2 Before suspending the implementation the Parliament shall formally notify the
beneficiary of its intention to suspend, specifying the reasons thereof, and, in the
cases referred to in points (a) and (b) of Article II.15.2.1, the necessary conditions
for resuming the implementation. The beneficiary shall be invited to submit
observations within 30 calendar days from receipt of this notification.
If, after examination of the observations submitted by the beneficiary, the
Parliament decides to stop the suspension procedure, it shall formally notify the
beneficiary thereof.
If no observations have been submitted or if, despite the observations submitted
by the beneficiary, the Parliament decides to pursue the suspension procedure, it
may suspend the implementation by formally notifying the beneficiary thereof,
specifying the reasons for the suspension and, in the cases referred to in points
(a) and (b) of Article II.15.2.1, the definitive conditions for resuming the
implementation or, in the case referred to in point (c) of Article II.15.2.1, the
indicative date of completion of the necessary verification.
The suspension shall take effect on the day of the receipt of the notification by
the beneficiary or on a later date, where the notification so provides.
In order to resume the implementation, the beneficiary shall endeavour to meet
the notified conditions as soon as possible and shall inform the Parliament of any
progress made in this respect.
Unless the Agreement is terminated in accordance with Article II.16.1 or points
(b), (h) or (i) of Article II.16.2.1, the Parliament shall, as soon as it considers that
the conditions for resuming the implementation have been met or the necessary
verification, including on-the-spot checks, has been carried out, formally notify the
Page 10 of 29beneficiary thereof and invite the beneficiary to present a request for amendment
of the Agreement as provided for in Article II.15.3.
II.15.3 Effects of the suspension
If the implementation of the action can be resumed and the Agreement is not terminated, an
amendment to the Agreement shall be made in accordance with Article II.12 in order to
establish the date on which the action shall be resumed, to extend the duration of the action
and to make any other modifications that may be necessary to adapt the action to the new
implementing conditions.
The suspension is deemed lifted as from the date of resumption of the action agreed by the
parties in accordance with the first subparagraph. Such a date may be before the date on
which the amendment enters into force.
Any costs incurred by the beneficiary, during the period of suspension, for the
implementation of the suspended action or the suspended part thereof, shall not be
reimbursed or covered by the grant.
The right of the Parliament to suspend the implementation is without prejudice to its right to
terminate the Agreement in accordance with Article II.16.2 and its right to reduce the grant or
recover amounts unduly paid in accordance with Articles II.25.4 and II.26.
Neither party shall be entitled to claim compensation on account of a suspension by the other
party.
ARTICLE II.16 – TERMINATION OF THE AGREEMENT
II.16.1 Termination of the Agreement by the beneficiary
In duly justified cases the beneficiary may terminate the Agreement by formally notifying the
Parliament thereof, stating clearly the reasons and specifying the date on which the
termination shall take effect. The notification shall be sent before the termination is due to
take effect.
If no reasons are given or if the Parliament considers that the reasons exposed cannot justify
the termination, it shall formally notify the beneficiary, specifying the grounds thereof, and the
Agreement shall be deemed to have been terminated improperly, with the consequences set
out in the third subparagraph of Article II.16.3.
II.16.2 Termination of the Agreement by the Parliament
II.16.2.1 The Parliament may decide to terminate the Agreement in the following
circumstances:
(a) if a change to the beneficiary’s legal, financial, technical, organisational or
ownership situation is likely to affect the implementation of the Agreement
substantially or calls into question the decision to award the grant;
(b) if the beneficiary does not implement the action as specified in Annex I or
fails to comply with another substantial obligation incumbent on it under the
terms of the Agreement;
Page 11 of 29(c) in the event of force majeure, notified in accordance with Article II.14, or in
the event of suspension by the beneficiary as a result of exceptional
circumstances, notified in accordance with Article II.15, where resuming the
implementation is impossible or where the necessary modifications to the
Agreement would call into question the decision awarding the grant or
would result in unequal treatment of applicants;
(d) if the beneficiary is declared bankrupt, is being wound up, is having its
affairs administered by the courts, has entered into an arrangement with
creditors, has suspended business activities, is the subject of any other
similar proceedings concerning those matters, or is in an analogous
situation arising from a similar procedure provided for in national legislation
or regulations;
(e) if the beneficiary or any related person, as defined in the second
subparagraph, have been found guilty of professional misconduct proven
by any means;
(f) if the beneficiary is not in compliance with its obligations relating to the
payment of social security contributions or the payment of taxes in
accordance with the legal provisions of the country in which it is established
or in which the action is implemented;
(g) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary or any related person, as
defined in the second subparagraph, have committed fraud, corruption, or
are involved in a criminal organisation, money laundering or any other
illegal activity detrimental to the Union's financial interests;
(h) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary or any related person, as
defined in the second subparagraph, have committed substantial errors,
irregularities or fraud in the award procedure or in the implementation of the
Agreement, including in the event of submission of false information or
failure to submit required information in order to obtain the grant provided
for in the Agreement; or
(i) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary has committed systemic
or recurrent errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations under other
grants funded by the Union or the European Atomic Energy Community
which were awarded to the beneficiary under similar conditions, provided
that those errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations have a
material impact on this grant.
For the purposes of points (e), (g) and (h) "any related person" shall mean any
natural person who has the power to represent the beneficiary or to take
decisions on its behalf.
II.16.2.2 Before terminating the Agreement, the Parliament shall formally notify the
beneficiary of its intention to terminate, specifying the reasons thereof and inviting
the beneficiary, within 45 calendar days from receipt of the notification, to submit
observations and, in the case of point (b) of Article II.16.2.1, to inform the
Parliament about the measures taken to ensure that it continues to fulfil its
obligations under the Agreement.
Page 12 of 29If, after examination of the observations submitted by the beneficiary, the
Parliament decides to stop the termination procedure, it shall formally notify the
beneficiary thereof.
If no observations have been submitted or if, despite the observations submitted
by the beneficiary, the Parliament decides to pursue the termination procedure, it
may terminate the Agreement by formally notifying the beneficiary thereof,
specifying the reasons for the termination.
In the cases referred to in points (a), (b), (d) and (f) of Article II.16.2.1, the formal
notification shall specify the date on which the termination takes effect. In the
cases referred to in points (c), (e), (g), (h) and (i) of Article II.16.2.1, the
termination shall take effect on the day following the date on which the formal
notification was received by the beneficiary.
II.16.3 Effects of termination
Where the Agreement is terminated, payments by the Parliament shall be limited to the
amount determined in accordance with Article II.25 on the basis of the eligible costs incurred
by the beneficiary and the actual level of implementation of the action on the date when the
termination takes effect. Costs relating to current commitments, which are not due for
execution until after the termination, shall not be taken into account. The beneficiary shall
have 60 days from the date when the termination of the Agreement takes effect, as provided
for in Articles II.16.1 and II.16.2.2, to produce a request for payment of the balance in
accordance with Article II.23.2. If no request for payment of the balance is received within
this time limit, the Parliament shall not reimburse or cover any costs which are not included in
a financial statement approved by it or which are not justified in a technical report approved
by it. In accordance with Article II.26, the Parliament shall recover any amount already paid,
if its use is not substantiated by the technical reports and, where applicable, by the financial
statements approved by the Parliament.
Where the Parliament, in accordance with point (b) of Article II.16.2.1, is terminating the
Agreement on the grounds that the beneficiary has failed to produce the request for payment
and, after a reminder, has still not complied with this obligation within the deadline set out in
Article II.23.3, the first subparagraph shall apply, subject to the following:
(a) there shall be no additional time period from the date when the termination
of the Agreement takes effect for the beneficiary to produce a request for
payment of the balance in accordance with Article II.23.2; and
(b) the Parliament shall not reimburse or cover any costs incurred by the
beneficiary up to the date of termination or up to the end of the period set
out in Article I.2.2, whichever is the earlier, which are not included in a
financial statement approved by it or which are not justified in a technical
report approved by it.
In addition to the first and second subparagraphs, where the Agreement is terminated
improperly by the beneficiary within the meaning of Article II.16.1, or where the Agreement is
terminated by the Parliament on the grounds set out in points (b), (e), (g), (h) and (i) of Article
II.16.2.1, the Parliament may also reduce the grant or recover amounts unduly paid in
accordance with Articles II.25.4 and II.26, in proportion to the gravity of the failings in
question and after allowing the beneficiary to submit its observations.
Page 13 of 29Neither party shall be entitled to claim compensation on account of a termination by the other
party.
ARTICLE II.17 – ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL PENALTIES
II.17.1 By virtue of Articles 137-144; 199 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 23 September 2024 on the
financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and with due regard to
the principle of proportionality, if the beneficiary has committed substantial errors,
irregularities or fraud, has made false declarations in supplying required information
or has failed to supply such information at the moment of the submission of the
application or during the implementation of the grant, or has been found in
serious breach of its obligations under the Agreement, it shall be liable to:
(a) administrative penalties consisting of exclusion from all contracts and grants
financed by the Union budget for a maximum of five years from the date on
which the infringement is established and confirmed following a contradictory
procedure with the beneficiary; and/or
(b) financial penalties of 2% to 10% of the maximum amount of the grant set out
in Article I.3.
In the event of another infringement within five years following the establishment of
the first infringement, the period of exclusion under point (a) may be extended to 10
years and the range of the rate referred to in point (b) may be increased to 4% to
20%.
II.17.2 The Parliament shall formally notify the beneficiary of any decision to apply such
penalties.
The Parliament is entitled to publish such decision under the conditions and
within the limits specified in Article 142 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509.
An action may be brought against such decision before the General Court of the
European Union, pursuant to Article 263 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the
European Union ("TFEU").
ARTICLE II.18 – APPLICABLE LAW, SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES AND ENFORCEABLE
DECISION
II.18.1 The grant is governed by the terms of the agreement, the Union law applicable and,
on a subsidiary basis, by the law of Belgium under the Internal Rules on the
execution of the General Budget of the European Union relating to grants.
II.18.2 Pursuant to Article 272 TFEU, the General Court or, on appeal, the Court of Justice
of the European Union, shall have sole jurisdiction to hear any dispute between the
Union and the beneficiary concerning the interpretation, application or validity of this
Agreement, if such dispute cannot be settled amicably.
Page 14 of 29PART B – FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE II.19 – ELIGIBLE COSTS
II.19.1 Conditions for the eligibility of costs
"Eligible costs" of the action are costs actually incurred by the beneficiary which meet the
following criteria:
(a) they are incurred in the period set out in Article I.2.2, with the exception of costs
relating to the request for payment of the balance and the corresponding supporting
documents referred to in Article II.23.2;
(b) they are indicated in the estimated budget set out in Annex III;
(c) they are incurred in connection with the action as described in Annex I and are
necessary for its implementation;
(d) they are identifiable and verifiable, in particular being recorded in the accounting
records of the beneficiary and determined according to the applicable accounting
standards of the country where the beneficiary is established and with the usual cost
accounting practices of the beneficiary;
(e) they comply with the requirements of applicable tax and social legislation; and
(f) they are reasonable, justified, and comply with the principle of sound financial
management, in particular regarding economy and efficiency.
II.19.2 Eligible direct costs
"Direct costs" of the action are those specific costs which are directly linked to the
implementation of the action and can therefore be attributed directly to it. They may not
include any indirect costs.
To be eligible, direct costs shall comply with the conditions of eligibility set out in Article
II.19.1.
In particular, the following categories of costs are eligible direct costs, provided that they
satisfy the conditions of eligibility set out in Article II.19.1 as well as the following conditions:
(a) the costs of personnel working under an employment contract with the beneficiary or
an equivalent appointing act and assigned to the action, comprising actual salaries plus
social security contributions and other statutory costs included in the remuneration,
provided that these costs are in line with the beneficiary's usual policy on remuneration;
those costs may also include additional remunerations, including payments on the
basis of supplementary contracts regardless of the nature of those contracts, provided
that they are paid in a consistent manner whenever the same kind of work or expertise
is required, independently from the source of funding used;
The costs of natural persons working under a contract with the beneficiary other than
an employment contract may be assimilated to such costs of personnel, provided that
the following conditions are fulfilled:
Page 15 of 29(i) the natural person works under the instructions of the beneficiary and, unless
otherwise agreed with the beneficiary, in the premises of the beneficiary;
(ii) the result of the work belongs to the beneficiary; and
(iii) the costs are not significantly different from the costs of staff performing similar
tasks under an employment contract with the beneficiary;
(b) costs of travel and related subsistence allowances, provided that these costs are in line
with the beneficiary's usual practices on travel;
(c) the depreciation costs of equipment or other assets (new or second-hand) as recorded
in the accounting statements of the beneficiary, provided that the asset has been
purchased in accordance with Article II.9 and that it is written off in accordance with the
international accounting standards and the usual accounting practices of the
beneficiary; the costs of rental or lease of equipment or other assets are also eligible,
provided that these costs do not exceed the depreciation costs of similar equipment or
assets and are exclusive of any finance fee;
Only the portion of the equipment's depreciation, rental or lease costs corresponding to
the period set out in Article I.2.2 and the rate of actual use for the purposes of the
action may be taken into account. By way of exception, the Special Conditions may
provide for the eligibility of the full cost of purchase of equipment, where justified by the
nature of the action and the context of the use of the equipment or assets;
(d) costs of consumables and supplies, provided that they are purchased in accordance
with Article II.9 and are directly assigned to the action;
(e) costs arising directly from requirements imposed by the Agreement (dissemination of
information, specific evaluation of the action, audits, translations, reproduction),
including the costs of requested financial guarantees, provided that the corresponding
services are purchased in accordance with Article II.9;
(f) costs entailed by subcontracts within the meaning of Article II.10, provided that the
conditions laid down in that Article are met;
(g) costs of financial support to third parties within the meaning of Article II.11, provided
that the conditions laid down in that Article are met;
(h) duties, taxes and charges paid by the beneficiary, notably value added tax (VAT),
provided that they are included in eligible direct costs, and unless specified otherwise
in the Agreement.
II.19.3 Eligible indirect costs
"Indirect costs" of the action are those costs which are not specific costs directly linked to the
implementation of the action and can therefore not be attributed directly to it. They may not
include any costs identifiable or declared as eligible direct costs.
To be eligible, indirect costs shall represent a fair apportionment of the overall overheads of
the beneficiary and shall comply with the conditions of eligibility set out in Article II.19.1.
Page 16 of 29Unless otherwise specified in the Article I.3, eligible indirect costs shall be declared on the
basis of a flat rate of 7% of the total eligible direct costs.
II.19.4 Ineligible costs
In addition to any other costs which do not fulfill the conditions set out in Article II.19.1, the
following costs shall not be considered eligible:
(a) return on capital;
(b) debt and debt service charges;
(c) provisions for losses or debts;
(d) interest owed;
(e) doubtful debts;
(f) exchange losses;
(g) costs of transfers from the Parliament charged by the bank of the beneficiary;
(h) costs declared by the beneficiary in the framework of another action receiving a grant
financed from the Union budget (including grants awarded by a Member State and
financed from the Union budget and grants awarded by other bodies than the
Parliament for the purpose of implementing the Union budget); in particular, indirect
costs shall not be eligible under a grant for an action awarded to the beneficiary when it
already receives an operating grant financed from the Union budget during the period
in question;
(i) contributions in kind from third parties;
(j) excessive or reckless expenditure;
(k) deductible VAT.
II.19.5 Contributions in kind
Contributions in kind shall not constitute eligible costs. However, the European Parliament
can accept, if considered necessary or appropriate, that the co-financing of the action
referred to in Article I.3.3 should be made up entirely or in part of contributions in kind. In this
case, the value calculated for such contributions must not exceed:
- the costs actually borne and duly supported by accounting documents of the third
parties who made these contributions to the beneficiary free of charge but bear the
corresponding costs;
- the costs generally accepted on the market in question for the type of contribution
concerned when no costs are borne.
Contributions involving buildings shall not be covered by this possibility.
In the case of co-financing in kind, a financial value shall be placed on the
contributions and the same amount will be included in the costs of the action as
ineligible costs and in receipts from the action as co-financing in kind. The beneficiary
shall undertake to obtain these contributions as provided for in the agreement.
Page 17 of 29ARTICLE II.20 – IDENTIFIABILITY AND VERIFIABILITY OF THE AMOUNTS DECLARED
Reimbursement of actual costs
Where, in accordance with Article I.3, the grant takes the form of the reimbursement of actual
costs, the beneficiary must declare as eligible costs the costs it actually incurred for the
action.
If requested to do so in the context of the checks or audits described in Article II.27, the
beneficiary must be able to provide adequate supporting documents to prove the costs
declared, such as contracts, invoices and accounting records. In addition, the beneficiary's
usual accounting and internal control procedures must permit direct reconciliation of the
amounts declared with the amounts recorded in its accounting statements as well as with the
amounts indicated in the supporting documents.
ARTICLE II.21 – ELIGIBILITY OF COSTS OF ENTITIES AFFILIATED TO THE
BENEFICIARY
Where the Special Conditions contain a provision on entities affiliated to the beneficiary,
costs incurred by such an entity are eligible, provided that they satisfy the same conditions
under Articles II.19 and II.20 as apply to the beneficiary, and that the beneficiary ensures that
the conditions applicable to it under Articles II.3, II.4, II.5, II.7, II.9, II.10, and II.27 are also
applicable to the entity.
ARTICLE II.22 – BUDGET TRANSFERS
Without prejudice to Article II.10 and provided that the action is implemented as described in
Annex I, the beneficiary is allowed to adjust the estimated budget set out in Annex III, by
transfers between the different budget categories up to the limits set up in Article I.7, without
this adjustment being considered as an amendment of the Agreement within the meaning of
Article II.12.
ARTICLE II.23 – TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL REPORTING – REQUESTS FOR
PAYMENT AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
II.23.1 Requests for further pre-financing payments and supporting documents
Where, in accordance with Article I.4.1, the pre-financing shall be paid in several instalments
and where Article I.4.1 provides for a further pre-financing payment subject to having used all
or part of the previous instalment, the beneficiary may submit a request for a further pre-
financing payment once the percentage of the previous instalment specified in Article I.4.1
has been used.
Where, in accordance with Article I.4.1, the pre-financing shall be paid in several instalments
and where Article I.4.1 provides for a further pre-financing payment at the end of a reporting
period, the beneficiary shall submit a request for a further pre-financing payment within 60
days following the end of each reporting period for which a new pre-financing payment is
due.
In both cases, the request shall be accompanied by the following documents:
Page 18 of 29(a) a progress report on implementation of the action (“technical report on progress”);
(b) a statement on the amount of the previous pre-financing instalment used to cover costs
of the action (“statement on the use of the previous pre-financing instalment”), drawn
up in accordance with Annex IV; and
(c) where required by Article I.4.1, a financial guarantee.
II.23.2 Requests for interim payments or for payment of the balance and supporting
documents
The beneficiary shall submit a request for an interim payment or for payment of the balance
within 60 days following the end of each reporting period for which, in accordance with Article
I.4.1, an interim payment or the payment of the balance is due.
This request shall be accompanied by the following documents:
(a) an interim report (“interim technical report”) or, for the payment of the balance, a final
report on implementation of the action (“final technical report”), drawn up in accordance
with Annex IV;
(b) an interim financial statement (“interim financial statement”) or, for the payment of the
balance, a final financial statement (“final financial statement”); the interim or final
financial statements must include a breakdown of the amounts claimed by the
beneficiary and its affiliated entities; it must be drawn up in accordance with the
structure of the estimated budget set out in Annex III and with Annex IV and detail the
amounts for each of the forms of grant set out in Article I.3 for the reporting period
concerned;
(c) only for the payment of the balance, a summary financial statement (“summary
financial statement”); this statement must include a breakdown of the amounts
declared or requested by the beneficiary and its affiliated entities, aggregating the
financial statements already submitted previously and indicating the receipts referred to
in Article II.25.3.2 for the beneficiary and its affiliated entities; it must be drawn up in
accordance with Annex IV;
The beneficiary shall certify that the information provided in the request for interim payment
or for payment of the balance is full, reliable and true. It shall also certify that the costs
incurred can be considered eligible in accordance with the Agreement and that the request
for payment is substantiated by adequate supporting documents that can be produced in the
context of the checks or audits described in Article II.27. In addition, for the payment of the
balance, it shall certify that all the receipts referred to in Article II.25.3.2 have been declared.
II.23.3 Non-submission of documents
Where the beneficiary has failed to submit a request for interim payment or payment of the
balance accompanied by the documents referred to above within 60 days following the end
of the corresponding reporting period and where the beneficiary still fails to submit such a
request within 60 days following a written reminder sent by the Parliament, the Parliament
reserves the right to terminate the Agreement in accordance with Article II.16.2.1(b), with the
effects described in the second and the third subparagraphs of Article II.16.3.
Page 19 of 29II.23.4 Currency for requests for payment and financial statements and conversion
into euro
Requests for payment and financial statements shall be drafted in euro.
Where the beneficiary keeps its general accounts in a currency other than the euro, it shall
convert costs incurred in another currency into euro at the average of the daily exchange
rates published in the C series of Official Journal of the European Union, determined over the
corresponding reporting period. Where no daily euro exchange rate is published in the
Official Journal of the European Union for the currency in question, conversion shall be made
at the average of the monthly accounting rates established by the European Commission
and published on its website
(http://ec.europa.eu/budget/contracts_grants/info_contracts/inforeuro/inforeuro_en.cfm),
determined over the corresponding reporting period.
Where the beneficiary keeps its general accounts in euro, it shall convert costs incurred in
another currency into euro according to its usual accounting practices.
ARTICLE II.24 – PAYMENTS AND PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS
II.24.1 Pre-financing
The pre-financing is intended to provide the beneficiary with a float.
Without prejudice to Article II.24.6, where Article I.4.1 provides for a pre-financing payment
upon entry into force of the Agreement, the Parliament shall pay to the beneficiary within 30
days following that date.
II.24.2 Further pre-financing payments
Without prejudice to Articles II.24.4 and II.24.5, on receipt of the documents referred to in
Article II.23.1, the Parliament shall pay to the beneficiary the new pre-financing instalment
within 60 days.
Where the statement on the use of the previous pre-financing instalment submitted in
accordance with Article II.23.1 shows that less than 70% of the previous pre-financing
instalment paid has been used to cover costs of the action, the amount of the new pre-
financing to be paid shall be reduced by the difference between the 70% threshold and the
amount used.
II.24.3 Payment of the balance
The payment of the balance, which may not be repeated, is intended to reimburse or cover
after the end of period set out in Article I.2.2 the remaining part of the eligible costs incurred
by the beneficiary for its implementation. Where the total amount of earlier payments is
greater than the final amount of the grant determined in accordance with Article II.25, the
payment of the balance may take the form of a recovery as provided for by Article II.26.
Without prejudice to Articles II.24.4 and II.24.5, on receipt of the documents referred to in
Article II.23.2, the Parliament shall pay the amount due as the balance within the time limit
specified in Article I.4.2.
Page 20 of 29This amount shall be determined following approval of the request for payment of the
balance and of the accompanying documents and in accordance with the fourth
subparagraph. Approval of the request for payment of the balance and of the accompanying
documents shall not imply recognition of the regularity or of the authenticity, completeness
and correctness of the declarations and information it contains.
The amount due as the balance shall be determined by deducting, from the final amount of
the grant determined in accordance with Article II.25, the total amount of pre-financing and
interim payments already made.
II.24.4 Suspension of the time limit for payment
The Parliament may suspend the time limit for payment specified in Articles I.4.2 and II.24.2
at any time by formally notifying the beneficiary that its request for payment cannot be met,
either because it does not comply with the provisions of the Agreement, or because the
appropriate supporting documents have not been produced, or because there is doubt about
the eligibility of the costs declared in the financial statement.
The beneficiary shall be notified as soon as possible of any such suspension, together with
the reasons thereof.
Suspension shall take effect on the date when notification is sent by the Parliament. The
remaining payment period shall start to run again from the date on which the requested
information or revised documents are received or the necessary further verification, including
on-the-spot checks, is carried out. Where the suspension exceeds two months, the
beneficiary may request a decision by the Parliament on whether the suspension is to be
continued.
Where the time limit for payment has been suspended following the rejection of one of the
technical reports or financial statements provided for by Article II.23 and the new report or
statement submitted is also rejected, the Parliament reserves the right to terminate the
Agreement in accordance with Article II.16.2.1 (b), with the effects described in Article II.16.3.
II.24.5 Suspension of payments
The Parliament may, at any time during the implementation of the Agreement, suspend the
pre-financing payments, interim payments or payment of the balance:
(a) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary has committed substantial errors,
irregularities or fraud in the award procedure or in the implementation of the grant, or if
the beneficiary fails to comply with its obligations under the Agreement;
(b) if the Parliament has evidence that the beneficiary has committed systemic or recurrent
errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations under other grants funded by the
Union or by the European Atomic Energy Community which were awarded to the
beneficiary under similar conditions, provided that those errors, irregularities, fraud or
breach of obligations have a material impact on this grant; or
(c) if the Parliament suspects substantial errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of
obligations committed by the beneficiary in the award procedure or in the
implementation of the Agreement and needs to verify whether they have actually
occurred.
Page 21 of 29Before suspending payments, the Parliament shall formally notify the beneficiary of its
intention to suspend payments, specifying the reasons thereof and, in the cases referred to
in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph, the necessary conditions for resuming
payments. The beneficiary shall be invited to make any observations within 30 calendar days
from receipt of this notification.
If, after examination of the observations submitted by the beneficiary, the Parliament decides
to stop the procedure of payment suspension, the Parliament shall formally notify the
beneficiary thereof.
If no observations have been submitted or if, despite the observations submitted by the
beneficiary, the Parliament decides to pursue the procedure of payment suspension, it may
suspend payments by formally notifying the beneficiary, specifying the reasons for the
suspension and, in the cases referred to in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph, the
definitive conditions for resuming payments or, in the case referred to in point (c) of the first
subparagraph, the indicative date of completion of the necessary verification.
The suspension of payments shall take effect on the date when the notification is sent by the
Parliament.
In order to resume payments, the beneficiary shall endeavour to meet the notified conditions
as soon as possible and shall inform the Parliament of any progress made in this respect.
The Parliament shall, as soon as it considers that the conditions for resuming payments have
been met or the necessary verification, including on-the-spot checks, has been carried out,
formally notify the beneficiary thereof.
During the period of suspension of payments and without prejudice to the right to suspend
the implementation in accordance with Article II.15.1 or to terminate the Agreement in
accordance with Article II.16.1, the beneficiary is not entitled to submit any requests for
payments and supporting documents referred to in Article II.23.
The corresponding requests for payments and supporting documents may be submitted as
soon as possible after resumption of payments or may be included in the first request for
payment due following resumption of payments in accordance with the schedule laid down in
Article I.4.1
II.24.6 Notification of amounts due
The Parliament shall formally notify the amounts due, specifying whether it is a further pre-
financing payment, an interim payment or the payment of the balance. In the case of
payment of the balance, it shall also specify the final amount of the grant determined in
accordance with Article II.25.
II.24.7 Interest on late payment
On expiry of the time limits for payment specified in Articles I.4.2, II.24.1 and II.24.2, and
without prejudice to Articles II.24.4 and II.24.5, the beneficiary is entitled to interest on late
payment at the rate applied by the European Central Bank for its main refinancing operations
in euros ("the reference rate"), plus three and a half percentage points. The reference rate
shall be the rate in force on the first day of the month in which the time limit for payment
expires, as published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Union.
Page 22 of 29The first subparagraph shall not apply where the beneficiary is a Member State of the Union,
including regional and local government authorities and other public bodies acting in the
name and on behalf of the Member State for the purpose of this Agreement.
The suspension of the time limit for payment in accordance with Article II.24.4 or of payment
by the Parliament in accordance with Article II.24.5 may not be considered as late payment.
Interest on late payment shall cover the period running from the day following the due date
for payment, up to and including the date of actual payment as established in Article II.24.9.
The interest payable shall not be considered for the purposes of determining the final amount
of grant within the meaning of Article II.25.3.
By way of derogation from the first subparagraph, when the calculated interest is lower than
or equal to EUR 200, it shall be paid to the beneficiary only upon request submitted within
two months of receiving late payment.
II.24.8 Currency for payments
Payments by the Parliament shall be made in euro.
II.24.9 Date of payment
Payments by the Parliament shall be deemed to be effected on the date when they are
debited to the Parliament's account.
II.24.10 Costs of payment transfers
Costs of the payment transfers shall be borne in the following way:
(a) costs of transfer charged by the bank of the Parliament shall be borne by the
Parliament;
(b) costs of transfer charged by the bank of the beneficiary shall be borne by the
beneficiary;
(c) all costs of repeated transfers caused by one of the parties shall be borne by the party
which caused the repetition of the transfer.
ARTICLE II.25 – DETERMINING THE FINAL AMOUNT OF THE GRANT
II.25.1 Calculation of the final amount
Without prejudice to Articles II.25.2, II.25.3 and II.25.4, the final amount of the grant shall be
determined as follows:
Where, in accordance with Article I.3, the grant takes the form of the reimbursement of
eligible costs, the amount obtained by application of the reimbursement rate specified in that
Article to the eligible costs of the action approved by the Parliament for the corresponding
categories of costs, for the beneficiary and its affiliated entities;
II.25.2 Maximum amount
Page 23 of 29The total amount paid to the beneficiary by the Parliament may in no circumstances exceed
the maximum amount specified in Article I.3.
Where the amount determined in accordance with Article II.25.1 exceeds this maximum
amount, the final amount of the grant shall be limited to the maximum amount specified in
Article I.3.
II.25.3 No-profit rule and taking into account of receipts
II.25.3.1 The grant may not produce a profit for the beneficiary, unless specified otherwise in
the Special Conditions. "Profit" shall mean a surplus of the receipts over the eligible
costs of the action.
II.25.3.2 The receipts to be taken into account are the receipts established, generated or
confirmed on the date on which the request for payment of the balance is drawn up
by the beneficiary, which fall within one of the following two categories:
(a) income generated by the action; or
(b) financial contributions specifically assigned by the donors to the financing of the
eligible costs of the action reimbursed by the Parliament in accordance with
Article I.3.
(c) in case of an operating grant, amounts dedicated to the building up of reserves.
II.25.3.3 The following shall not be considered as a receipt to be taken into account for the
purpose of verifying whether the grant produces a profit for the beneficiary:
(a) financial contributions referred to in point (b) of Article II.25.3.2, which may be
used by the beneficiary to cover costs other than the eligible costs under the
Agreement;
(b) financial contributions referred to in point (b) of Article II.25.3.2, the unused part
of which is not due to the donor at the end of the period set out in Article I.2.2;
II.25.3.4 The eligible costs to be taken into account are the eligible costs approved by the
Parliament for the categories of costs reimbursed in accordance with Article I.3.
II.25.3.5 Where the final amount of the grant determined in accordance with Articles II.25.1
and II.25.2 would result in a profit for the beneficiary, the profit shall be deducted in
proportion to the final rate of reimbursement of the actual eligible costs of the action
approved by the Parliament for the categories of costs referred to in Article I.3. This
final rate shall be calculated on the basis of the final amount of the grant in the form
referred to in Article I.3, as determined in accordance with Articles II.25.1 and
II.25.2.
II.25.4 Reduction for poor, partial or late implementation
If the action is not implemented or is implemented poorly, partially or late, the Parliament
may reduce the grant initially provided for, in line with the actual implementation of the action
according to the terms laid down in the Agreement.
ARTICLE II.26 – RECOVERY
II.26.1 Financial responsibility
Where an amount is to be recovered under the terms of the Agreement, the beneficiary shall
repay the Parliament the amount in question. The beneficiary shall be responsible for the
Page 24 of 29repayment of any amount unduly paid by the Parliament as a contribution towards the costs
incurred by its affiliated entities.
II.26.2 Recovery procedure
Before recovery, the Parliament shall formally notify the beneficiary of its intention to recover
the amount unduly paid, specifying the amount due and the reasons for recovery and inviting
the beneficiary to make any observations within a specified period.
If no observations have been submitted or if, despite the observations submitted by the
beneficiary, the Parliament decides to pursue the recovery procedure, the Parliament may
confirm recovery by formally notifying to the beneficiary a debit note (“debit note”), specifying
the terms and the date for payment.
If payment has not been made by the date specified in the debit note, the Parliament shall
recover the amount due:
(a) by offsetting it against any amounts owed to the beneficiary by the Union or
the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) (“offsetting”); in
exceptional circumstances, justified by the necessity to safeguard the financial
interests of the Union, the Parliament may recover by offsetting before the due
date; the beneficiary’s prior consent shall not be required; an action may be
brought against such offsetting before the General Court of the European
Union pursuant to Article 263 TFEU;
(b) by taking legal action in accordance with Article II.18.2 or with the Special
Conditions.
II.26.3 Interest on late payment
If payment has not been made by the date set out in the debit note, the amount due shall
bear interest at the rate established in Article II.24.7. Interest on late payment shall cover the
period running from the day following the due date for payment, up to and including the date
when the Parliament actually receives payment in full of the outstanding amount.
Any partial payment shall first be appropriated against charges and interest on late payment
and then against the principal.
II.26.4 Bank charges
Bank charges incurred in connection with the recovery of the sums owed to the Parliament
shall be borne by the beneficiary except where Directive (EU) 2015/2366 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on payment services in the internal
market amending Directives 2002/65/EC, 2009/110/EC and 2013/36/EU and Regulation (EU)
No 1093/2010 and repealing Directive 2007/64/EC applies.
ARTICLE II.27 – CHECKS, AUDITS AND EVALUATION
II.27.1 Technical and financial checks or audits and interim and final evaluations
The Parliament may carry out technical and financial checks and audits in relation to the use
of the grant. It may also check the statutory records of the beneficiary for the purpose of
periodic assessments of lump sum, unit cost or flat-rate amounts.
Page 25 of 29Information and documents provided in the framework of checks or audits shall be treated on
a confidential basis.
In addition, the Parliament may carry out interim or final evaluation of the impact of the action
measured against the objective of the Union programme concerned.
Checks, audits or evaluations made by the Parliament may be carried out either directly by
its own staff or by any other outside body authorised to do so on its behalf.
Such checks, audits or evaluations may be initiated during the implementation of the
Agreement and for a period of five years starting from the date of payment of the balance.
This period shall be limited to three years if the maximum amount specified in Article I.3 is
not more than EUR 60 000.
The check, audit or evaluation procedure shall be deemed to be initiated on the date of
receipt of the letter of the Parliament announcing it.
II.27.2 Duty to keep documents
The beneficiary shall keep all original documents, especially accounting and tax records,
stored on any appropriate medium, including digitalised originals when they are authorised
by its national law and under the conditions laid down therein, for a period of five years
starting from the date of payment of the balance.
This period shall be limited to three years if the maximum amount specified in Article I.3 is
not more than EUR 60 000.
The periods set out in the first and second subparagraphs shall be longer if there are on-
going audits, appeals, litigation or pursuit of claims concerning the grant, including in the
case referred to in Article II.27.7. In such cases, the beneficiary shall keep the documents
until such audits, appeals, litigation or pursuit of claims are closed.
II.27.3 Obligation to provide information
The beneficiary shall provide any information, including information in electronic format,
requested by the Parliament, or by any other outside body authorised by it, in the context of
checks, audits or evaluations as referred to in Article II.27.1
In case the beneficiary does not comply with the obligation set out in the first subparagraph,
the Parliament may consider:
(a) any cost insufficiently substantiated by information provided by the beneficiary as
ineligible;
(b) any unit, lump sum or flat-rate contribution insufficiently substantiated by information
provided by the beneficiary as undue.
II.27.4 On-the-spot visits
During an on-the-spot visit, the beneficiary shall allow Parliament staff and outside personnel
authorised by the Parliament to have access to the sites and premises where the action is or
was carried out, and to all the necessary information, including information in electronic
format.
Page 26 of 29It shall ensure that the information is readily available at the moment of the on-the-spot visit
and that information requested is handed over in an appropriate form.
In case the beneficiary refuses to provide access to the sites, premises and information in
accordance with the first and second subparagraphs, the Parliament may consider:
(a) any cost insufficiently substantiated by information provided by the beneficiary as
ineligible;
(b) any unit, lump sum or flat-rate contribution insufficiently substantiated by information
provided by the beneficiary as undue.
II.27.5 Contradictory audit procedure
On the basis of the findings made during the audit, a provisional report (“draft audit report”)
shall be drawn up. It shall be sent by the Parliament or its authorised representative to the
beneficiary, which shall have 30 days from the date of receipt to submit observations. The
final report (“final audit report”) shall be sent to the beneficiary within 60 days of expiry of the
time limit for submission of observations.
II.27.6 Effects of audit findings
On the basis of the final audit findings, the Parliament may take the measures which it
considers necessary, including recovery of all or part of the payments made by it, in
accordance with Article II.26.
In the case of final audit findings made after the payment of the balance, the amount to be
recovered shall correspond to the difference between the revised final amount of the grant,
determined in accordance with Article II.25, and the total amount paid to the beneficiary
under the Agreement for the implementation of the action.
II.27.7 Correction of systemic or recurrent errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of
obligations
II.27.7.1 The Parliament may take all measures which it considers necessary, including
recovery of all or part of the payments made by it under the Agreement, in
accordance with Article II.26, where the following conditions are fulfilled:
a) the beneficiary is found, on the basis of an audit of other grants awarded to it
under similar conditions, to have committed systemic or recurrent errors,
irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations that have a material impact on this
grant; and
b) the final audit report containing the findings of the systemic or recurrent errors,
irregularities, fraud or breach of obligations is received by the beneficiary
within the period referred to in Article II.27.1.
II.27.7.2 The Parliament shall determine the amount to be corrected under the Agreement:
a) wherever possible and practicable, on the basis of costs unduly declared as
eligible under the Agreement.
For that purpose, the beneficiary shall revise the financial statements
submitted under the Agreement taking account of the findings and resubmit
them to the Parliament within 60 days from the date of receipt of the final audit
Page 27 of 29report containing the findings of the systemic or recurrent errors, irregularities,
fraud or breach of obligations.
In the case of systemic or recurrent errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of
obligations found after the payment of the balance, the amount to be
recovered shall correspond to the difference between the revised final amount
of the grant, determined in accordance with Article II.25 on the basis of the
revised eligible costs declared by the beneficiary and approved by the
Parliament, and the total amount paid to the beneficiary under the Agreement
for the implementation of the action;
b) where it is not possible or practicable to quantify precisely the amount of
ineligible costs under the Agreement, by extrapolating the correction rate
applied to the eligible costs for the grants for which the systemic or recurrent
errors or irregularities have been found.
The Parliament shall formally notify the extrapolation method to be applied to
the beneficiary, which shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the
notification to submit observations and to propose a duly substantiated
alternative method.
If the Parliament accepts the alternative method proposed by the beneficiary,
it shall formally notify the beneficiary thereof and determine the revised eligible
costs by applying the accepted alternative method.
If no observations have been submitted or if the Parliament does not accept
the observations or the alternative method proposed by the beneficiary, the
Parliament shall formally notify the beneficiary thereof and determine the
revised eligible costs by applying the extrapolation method initially notified to
the beneficiary.
In the case of systemic or recurrent errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of
obligations found after the payment of the balance, the amount to be
recovered shall correspond to the difference between the revised final amount
of the grant, determined in accordance with Article II.25 on the basis of the
revised eligible costs after extrapolation, and the total amount paid to the
beneficiary under the Agreement for the implementation of the action; or
c) where ineligible costs cannot serve as a basis for determining the amount to
be corrected, by applying a flat rate correction to maximum amount of the
grant specified in Article I.3 or part thereof, having regard to the principle of
proportionality.
The Parliament shall formally notify the flat rate to be applied to the
beneficiary, which shall have 60 days from the date of receipt of the
notification to submit observations and to propose a duly substantiated
alternative flat rate.
If the Parliament accepts the alternative flat rate proposed by the beneficiary,
it shall formally notify the beneficiary thereof and correct the grant amount by
applying the accepted alternative flat rate.
If no observations have been submitted or if the Parliament does not accept
the observations or the alternative flat rate proposed by the beneficiary, the
Page 28 of 29Parliament shall formally notify the beneficiary thereof and correct the grant
amount by applying the flat rate initially notified to the beneficiary.
In the case of systemic or recurrent errors, irregularities, fraud or breach of
obligations found after the payment of the balance, the amount to be
recovered shall correspond to the difference between the revised final amount
of the grant after flat-rate correction and the total amount paid to the
beneficiary under the Agreement for the implementation of the action.
II.27.8 Checks and inspections by OLAF
The European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) shall have the same rights as the Parliament,
notably right of access, for the purpose of checks and investigations.
By virtue of Council Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996 concerning
on-the-spot checks and inspections carried out by the Commission in order to protect the
European Communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities and
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 883/2013 of the European Parliament and the Council of 11
September 2013 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office
(OLAF), OLAF may also carry out on-the-spot checks and inspections in accordance with the
procedures laid down by Union law for the protection of the financial interests of the Union
against fraud and other irregularities.
Where appropriate, OLAF findings may lead to recovery by the Parliament.
II.27.9 Checks and audits by the European Court of Auditors
The European Court of Auditors shall have the same rights as the Parliament, notably right of
access, for the purpose of checks and audits.
Page 29 of 29FINANCIAL IDENTIFICATION FORM
Please complete the form electronically, in capital letters and only in LATIN characters
By submitting this form, you acknowledge that you have been informed about the processing of your personal data by the European Parliament
for accounting and contractual purposes. Protection of personal data (LINK)
LEGAL ENTITY TYPE LEGAL ENTITY WITH VAT LEGAL ENTITY WITHOUT VAT NATURAL PERSON
Group of Economic Operators WITHOUT Legal Entity(1)
VAT-NUMBER(2)
LEGAL ENTITY
LEGAL FORM
ORGANIZATION NAME(3)
NATURAL PERSON
FIRST NAME
LAST NAME(4)
ADDRESS
STREET
NUMBER POSTAL CODE
TOWN / CITY COUNTRY
EMAIL
BANK
BANK NAME
ACCOUNT HOLDER NAME
(The name under which the account has been opened)
IBAN
(Obligatory, if the IBAN Code exists in the country where your bank is established)
SWIFT CODE (BIC) CURRENCY
Account Holder's address is different from the legal entity's address stated above.
STREET
NUMBER POSTAL CODE
TOWN / CITY COUNTRY
I do not have IBAN number.
ACCOUNT NUMBER
(National format)
OTHER BANK IDENTIFIER
Only for Legal Entity Representatives
POSITION/ROLE
FIRST NAME
LAST NAME
DATE
By checking this box, I confirm that the information provided above is accurate and complete.
This form will only be accepted if the following required documents are attached:
1. Proof of banking information: A document certifying your banking identity: RIB or a recent bank
statement (dated within the last six months) showing the account holder's name, account number/
IBAN, BIC/Swift code, and bank name. You may redact any other information on the statement.
2. Identification: Natural person - a copy of your ID card; Legal Entity – a copy of an official document
with the company name, VAT and Address.
(1) A group of economic operators is not considered as a supplier. It can have its own denomination. A leader is nominated to represent the group - the leader must be registered with all its details. If this option is selected, please, select Legal
Entity without VAT and fill out the Legal Entity Section to include the group of economic operators' information.
( 2) Intra-Community VAT number (country code plus number)
(3) For companies or bodies official name.
(4) For natural persons: family name as stated in official documents.EN BG CS DA DE EL ES ET FI FR GA HR
Формулярът за Formularen Formulario de
Financial финансова Formuláři finanční vedrørende Formular Eντύπου οικονομικών identificación financiera Rahoitustunnistautumise Formulaire signalétique bhFoirm Aitheantais Financijski
Identification Form идентификация (ФФИ) identifikace bankoplysninger (FIF) „Finanzangaben“ στοιχείων (FIF) Finantsteabe vormi n Lomake financier Airgeadais (FAA) Identifikacijski Obrazac
Type af juridisk Cineál Eintitis
Legal Entity Type Вид правен субект Typ právního subjektu person Art des Rechtsträgers Τύπος νομικού προσώπου Tipo de entidad jurídica Õigussubjekti liik Oikeushenkilötyyppi Type d'entité juridique Dhlítheanaigh Vrsta pravne osobe
Правен субект с Právnická osoba – Momspligtig juridisk Umsatzsteuerpflichtiger KM‐kohustusega ALV‐velvollinen Entité juridique avec Eintiteas Dlítheanach a Pravna osoba koja je
Legal Entity with VATрегистрация по ДДС plátce DPH person Rechtsträger Νομικό πρόσωπο με ΦΠΑ Entidad jurídica con IVA õigussubjekt oikeushenkilö TVA bhfuil CBL aige obveznik PDV‐a
Nicht
Legal Entity Without Правен субект без Právnická osoba, která Ikke‐momspligtig umsatzsteuerpflichtiger Νομικό πρόσωπο χωρίς KM‐kohustuseta Oikeushenkilö, joka ei ole Entité juridique sans Eintiteas Dlítheanach gan Pravna osoba koja nije
VAT регистрация по ДДС není plátcem DPH juridisk person Rechtsträger ΦΠΑ Entidad jurídica sin IVA õigussubjekt ALV‐velvollinen TVA CBL obveznik PDV‐a
Natural Person Физическо лице Fyzická osoba Fysisk person Natürliche Person Φυσικό πρόσωπο Individuo Füüsiline isik Luonnollinen henkilö Personne physique Duine Nádúrtha Fizička osoba
Momsregistreringsnu PDV identifikacijski
VAT Number Номер по ДДС DIČ mmer USt.‐Nr. Αριθμός ΦΠΑ Número de IVA KMKR number ALV‐numero Numéro de TVA Uimhir CBL broj
Legal Entity Правният субект Právnické osobě Juridiske person Rechtsträger Στοιχεία νομικού Entidad jurídica Juriidilise isiku Oikeushenkilö Entité juridique Dlítheanach Pravna Osoba
Legal Form Правна форма Právní forma Juridisk form Rechtsform Νομική μορφή Forma jurídica Õiguslik vorm Oikeudellinen muoto Forme juridique Foirm dhlíthiúil Pravni oblik
Наименование на Nombre de la
Organization Name организацията Název organizace Organisationens navn Name der Organisation Όνομα οργανισμού organización Organisatsiooni nimi Organisaation nimi Nom de l'organisation Ainm na hEagraíochta Ime organizacije
First Name Собствено име jméno Fornavn Vorname Όνομα Nombre Eesnimi Etunimi Prénom Céadainm Ime
Last Name Фамилно име příjmení Efternavn Nachname Επώνυμο Apellido Perekonnanimi Sukunimi Nom Sloinne Prezime
Address Адрес Adresa Adresse Anschrift Διεύθυνση Dirección Aadress Osoite Adresse Seoladh Adresa
Street улица ulici Gade Straße οδός Calle Tänav Katu Rue Sráid Ulica
номер на улица или на
Number жилищен блок číslo Husnummer Hausnummer αριθμός κατοικίας Número Maja number Talon numero Numéro Uimhir an tí Kućni broj
Postal Code пощенски код PSČ Postnummer Postleitzahl ταχυδρομικός κώδικας Código postal Sihtnumber Postinumero Code postal Cód poist Poštanski broj
Town град obec By Ort πόλη Ciudad Asula/linn Postitoimipaikka Ville Baile Grad
Country държава zemi Land Land χώρα País Riik Maa Pays Tír Država
e‐mail (nepovinný
Email Електронен адрес údaj) E‐mail E‐Mail Email Correo electrónico E‐post Sähköpostiosoite E‐mail Ríomhphost E‐adresa
Bank банката Bankovní údaje Bankoplysninger Bank Τραπεζικά στοιχεία Banco Panga Pankki Banque Banc Banka
Наименование на
Bank Name банката Název banky Bankens navn Name der Bank Επωνυμία τράπεζας Nombre del banco Panga nimi Pankin nimi Nom de la banque Ainm an Bhainc Naziv banke
Име на титуляря на Kontoindehaverens Όνομα κατόχου Nombre del titular de la Nom du titulaire de Ainm an tSealbhóra
Account Holder Nameсметката Jméno držitele účtu navn Name des Kontoinhabersλογαριασμού cuenta Kontoomaniku nimi Tilinhaltijan nimi compte Cuntais Ime vlasnika računa
SWIFT Code (BIC) SWIFT код (BIC) Kód SWIFT (BIC) SWIFT‐kode (BIC) SWIFT‐Code (BIC) Κωδικός SWIFT (BIC) Código SWIFT (BIC) SWIFT‐kood (BIC) SWIFT‐koodi (BIC) Code SWIFT (BIC) Cód SWIFT (BIC) SWIFT kôd (BIC)
Currency Валута Měna Valuta Währung Νόμισμα Moneda Vääring Valuutta Devise Airgeadra Valuta
Account Number Номер на сметката Číslo účtu Kontonummer Kontonummer Αριθμός λογαριασμού Número de cuenta Kontonumber Tilinumero Numéro de compte Uimhir an Chuntais Broj računa
Autre code
Друг банков Anden Άλλο αναγνωριστικό Otro identificador d’identification Druga identifikacijska
Other Bank Identifierидентификатор Jiný identifikátor bankybankidentifikator Sonstige Bankkennung στοιχείο τράπεζας bancario Muu tunnuskood Muu pankin tunniste bancaire Aitheantóir Bainc Eile oznaka banke
Puesto dentro de la
Position/Role Роля Funkce Rolle Funktion Ρόλος entidad jurídica Roll Tehtävä Poste Ról Uloga
Date Дата Datum Dato Datum Ημερομηνία Fecha Kuupäev Päivämäärä Date Dáta Datum
HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Formola ta’ Formulário de
Pénzügyi azonosító Modulo di identificazione Finansinių rekvizitų Finanšu identifikācijas Identifikazzjoni Formulier financiële Formularz identyfikacji Identificação Formularul de Formulár na finančnú Finančno identifikacijo Formuläret för
formanyomtatvány finanziaria forma veidlapa Finanzjarja identificatiegegevens (FIF) finansowej (FIF) Financeira (FIF) identificare financiară identifikáciu (FIF) (FIF) bankuppgifter (FIF)
Tipo de entidade
Jogi személy típusa Tipo di entità giuridica Teisės subjekto rūšis Tiesību subjekta veids Tip ta’ Entità Legali Soort juridische entiteit Typ podmiotu prawnegojurídica Tipul de entitate juridică Typ právneho subjektu Vrsta pravnega subjekta Typ av juridisk person
Podmiot
Entità giuridica con partita Juridinis asmuo PVM Juridiska persona ar Btw‐plichtige juridische odprowadzający podatek Entidade jurídica Momspliktig juridisk
Jogi személy ÁFA‐val IVA mokėtojas PVN Entità Legali bil‐VAT entiteit VAT com IVA Entitate juridică cu TVA Právny subjekt s DPH Pravni subjekt z DDV person
Podmiot
Jogi személy ÁFA Entità giuridica senza Juridinis asmuo ne Juridiska persona bez Entità Legali Mingħajr Niet btw‐plichtige nieodprowadzający Entidade jurídica Icke momspliktig
nélkül partita IVA PVM mokėtojas PVN VAT juridische entiteit podatku VAT sem IVA Entitate juridică fără TVA Právny subjekt bez DPH Pravni subjekt brez DDV juridisk person
Magánszemély Persona fisica Fizinis asmuo Fiziska persona Persuna Fiżika Natuurlijke persoon Osoba fizyczna Pessoa singular Persoană fizică Fyzická osoba Fizična oseba Fysisk person
PVN maksātāja Identifikacijska številka za Momsregistreringsnu
Adószám Numero di partita IVA PVM mokėtojo kodas numurs Numru tal‐VAT Btw‐nummer Numer VAT Número de IVA Numărul TVA IČ DPH DDV mmer
Jogi személy Entità Giuridica Juridinis Asmuo Tiesību subjekts Entità Legali Juridische entiteit Podmiocie prawnym Entidade jurídica Entitate Juridică Právnom subjekte Pravnem subjektu Juridiska personen
Jogi forma Forma giuridica Teisinė forma Juridiskā forma Forma Legali Rechtsvorm Forma prawna Forma jurídica Formă juridică Právna forma Pravna oblika Juridisk Form
Organizacijos Organizācijas Nome da
Szervezet neve Nome dell'organizzazione pavadinimas nosaukums Isem tal‐Organizzazzjoni Naam organisatie Nazwa organizacji organização Numele organizației Názov organizácie Ime organizacije Organisationsnamn
Keresztnév Nome Vardas vārds Isem Voornaam Imię Nome próprio Prenume Krstné meno Ime Förnamn
Vezetéknév Cognome Pavardė uzvārds Kunjom Achternaam Nazwisko Apelido Nume Priezvisko Priimek Efternamn
Cím Indirizzo Adresas Adrese Indirizz Adres Adres Endereço Adresa Adresa Naslov Adress
Utca Via gatvę Ielas nosaukums It‐triq Straat Ulica Rua Strada Ulica Ulica Gata
Házszám Numero namo numerį Mājas numurs In‐numru tal‐bieb Huisnummer Numer Número Numărul číslo domu Hišna številka Nummer
Irányítószám Codice postale pašto kodą Pasta indekss Il‐kodiċi postali Postcode Kod pocztowy Código postal Codul poștal PSČ Poštna številka Postnummer
Város Città miestą Pilsēta Il‐lokalità Plaats Miasto Localidade Orașul Mesto Kraj Stad
Ország Paese šalį Valsts Il‐pajjiż Land Kraj País Tara krajina Država Land
E‐mail‐cím E‐mail E. pašto adresas E‐pasta adrese Email E‐mail E‐mail Endereço eletrónico E‐mailul E‐mail E‐naslov E‐post
Bank Banca Bankas Banka Il‐Bank Bank Bank Banco Bancă Banka Banka Bank
Bank neve Nome della banca Banko pavadinimas Bankas nosaukums Isem il‐Bank Naam van de bank Nazwa banku Nome do banco Numele băncii Názov banky Ime banke Bankens namn
Sąskaitos turėtojo
Számlatulajdonos Nome del titolare del vardas ir pavardė arba Konta turētāja Nome do titular da Numele titularului de Kontoinnehavarens
neve conto pavadinimas vārds/nosaukums Isem id‐Detentur tal‐Kont Naam rekeninghouder Właściciel konta conta cont Meno držiteľa účtu Ime imetnika računa namn
SWIFT‐kód (BIC) Codice SWIFT (BIC) SWIFT (BIC) SWIFT kods (BIC) Kodiċi SWIFT (BIC) SWIFT‐code (BIC) Kod SWIFT (BIC) Código SWIFT (BIC) Codul SWIFT (BIC) SWIFT kód (BIC) Koda SWIFT (BIC) SWIFT‐kod (BIC)
Pénznem Valuta Valiuta Valūta Munita Valuta Waluta Moeda Moneda Mena Valuta Valuta
Számlaszám Numero di conto Sąskaitos numeris Konta numurs Numru tal‐kont Rekeningnummer Numer konta Número de conta Numărul de cont bancar Číslo účtu Številka računa Kontonummer
Annan
Altro codice identificativo Kitas banko Cits bankas Identifikatur Ieħor tal‐ Andere identificatiecode Dodatkowe informacje Outro identificador Alt cod de identificare Iný bankový bankidentifieringsuppg
Egyéb banki azonosítóbancario identifikatorius identifikators Bank van de bank bankowe bancário bancară identifikátor Drug bančni identifikatorift
Pozíció Ruolo Funkcijos loma Rwol Rol Rola Função Rol Pozícia/úloha Vloga Roll
Dátum Data Data datums Data Datum Data Data Data Dátum Datum DatumRequired documents:
• Proof of Banking Information: A document certifying your banking identity: RIB or a copy of bank statement (dated within the last six months) showing the account holder's name, account number/IBAN, BIC/
SWIFT code, and bank name. You may redact other sensitive information.
EN • Identification Documents: For natural persons, a copy of your ID card or passport; For entities, a copy of an official document with the company’s name, VAT and address.
Необходими документи:
• Доказателство за банкова информация: Документ, удостоверяващ банковата Ви самоличност: идентификатор на банкова сметка (RIB) или копие от банково извлечение (с дата през последните шест
месеца), в което са посочени името на титуляря на сметката, номерът на сметката/IBAN, кодът BIC/SWIFT и наименованието на банката. Можете да редактирате друга чувствителна информация.
• Идентификационни документи: За физически лица — копие от личната Ви карта или паспортa; За субекти — копие от официален документ с наименованието, регистрацията по ДДС и адреса на дружеството.
BG
Požadované dokumenty:
• Doklad o bankovních údajích: Doklad potvrzující Vaši bankovní identitu: potvrzení o bankovním účtu nebo kopie výpisu z bankovního účtu (datovaného během posledních šesti měsíců), v němž je uvedeno jméno
držitele účtu, číslo účtu/IBAN, kód BIC/SWIFT a název banky. Jiné citlivé údaje můžete skrýt.
• Identifikační doklady: V případě fyzických osob: kopie Vašeho průkazu totožnosti nebo cestovního pasu; v případě právních subjektů: kopie úředního dokumentu s názvem společnosti, DIČ a adresou společnosti.
CS
Nødvendige dokumenter:
• Dokumentation for bankoplysninger: Et dokument, der bekræfter din bankidentitet: Bankidentifikationsnummer eller en kopi af et kontoudtog (dateret inden for de seneste seks måneder), der viser
kontoindehaverens navn, kontonummer/IBAN, BIC/SWIFT‐kode og banknavn. Du må sløre andre følsomme oplysninger.
DA • Identifikationsdokumenter: For fysiske personer, en kopi af dit ID‐kort eller pas; For juridiske personer, en kopi af et officielt dokument med virksomhedens navn, moms og adresse.
Erforderliche Unterlagen:
• Nachweis zu den Angaben zur Bank: Ein Dokument zur Bescheinigung Ihrer Bankidentität, d. h. ein Bankidentitätsauszug oder eine Kopie eines Kontoauszugs (mit Datum aus den vergangenen sechs Monaten),
aus dem der Name des Kontoinhabers, die Kontonummer/IBAN, der BIC/SWIFT‐Code und der Name der Bank hervorgehen. Andere sensible Informationen dürfen Sie unkenntlich machen.
• Identifizierungsdokumente: Bei natürlichen Personen eine Kopie Ihres Personalausweises oder Reisepasses; Bei Rechtsträgern eine Kopie eines amtlichen Dokuments mit Name, Umsatzsteuernummer und
Anschrift des Unternehmens.
DE
Απαιτούμενα έγγραφα:
• Απόδειξη τραπεζικών στοιχείων: Έγγραφο που πιστοποιεί την τραπεζική σας ταυτότητα: Έντυπο τραπεζικών στοιχείων ή αντίγραφο κίνησης τραπεζικού λογαριασμού (με ημερομηνία εντός των τελευταίων
έξι μηνών) που αναφέρει το όνομα του κατόχου του λογαριασμού, τον αριθμό λογαριασμού/IBAN, τον κωδικό BIC/SWIFT και την επωνυμία της τράπεζας. Μπορείτε να απαλείψετε άλλες ευαίσθητες πληροφορίες.
• Έγγραφα ταυτοποίησης: Για τα φυσικά πρόσωπα, αντίγραφο του δελτίου ταυτότητας ή του διαβατηρίου σας·; Για οντότητες, αντίγραφο επίσημου εγγράφου με την επωνυμία, τον αριθμό ΦΠΑ και τη διεύθυνση της εταιρείας.
EL
Documentos requeridos:
• Prueba de información bancaria: Un documento que certifique su identidad bancaria: certificado de identificación bancaria o copia de un extracto bancario (fechado en los últimos seis meses) en el que figure el
nombre del titular de la cuenta, el número de cuenta/IBAN, el código BIC/SWIFT y el nombre del banco. Puede censurar otros datos delicados.
• Documentos de identificación: En el caso de las personas físicas, una copia de su documento de identidad o pasaporte; En el caso de las entidades, una copia de un documento oficial en el que figure el nombre,
ES el número de IVA y la dirección de la empresa.
Nõutavad dokumendid:
• Pangaandmete tõend: Konto omaniku andmeid tõendav dokument: tõend konto omaniku andmete kohta või kontoväljavõtte (mitte vanem kui kuus kuud) koopia, millel on kontoomaniku nimi, kontonumber/
IBAN, BIC/SWIFT‐kood ja panga nimi. Muud tundlikud andmed võite muuta loetamatuks.
ET • Identifitseerimisdokumendid: Füüsilised isikud: isikutunnistuse või passi koopia; Üksused: koopia ametlikust dokumendist, millel on äriühingu nimi, KMRK number ja aadress.
Vaaditut asiakirjat:
• Todiste pankkitiedoista: Tilitiedot vahvistava asiakirja: todistus pankkitilistä tai jäljennös tiliotteesta (kuuden viime kuukauden ajalta), josta käy ilmi tilinhaltijan nimi, tilinumero/IBAN, BIC/SWIFT‐koodi ja pankin
nimi. Voit peittää muut arkaluonteiset tiedot.
FI • Tunnistamisasiakirja: Luonnolliset henkilöt: jäljennös henkilökortista tai passista; Yhteisöt: jäljennös virallisesta asiakirjasta, jossa on yrityksen nimi, ALV‐numero ja osoite.
Documents à fournir:
• Preuve de coordonnées bancaires: Document certifiant votre identité bancaire: RIB ou copie de relevé bancaire (de moins de six mois) indiquant le nom du titulaire du compte, le numéro de compte/IBAN, le code BIC/
SWIFT et le nom de la banque. Vous pouvez occulter les autres informations sensibles.
• Document d’identification: Pour les personnes physiques, une copie de votre carte d’identité ou de votre passeport; Pour les entités, une copie d’un document officiel comportant le nom, le numéro de TVA et l’adresse de la société.
FR
Doiciméid Riachtanacha:
• Cruthúnas ar Fhaisnéis Bhaincéireachta: Doiciméad a dheimhníonn d’aitheantas baincéireachta: RIB nó cóip de ráiteas bainc (dar dáta le 6 mhí anuas) ar a dtaispeántar ainm, uimhir chuntais/IBAN, cód BIC/
SWIFT, agus ainm bainc an tsealbhóra cuntais. Féadfaidh tú faisnéis íogair eile a fholú.
GA • Doiciméid aitheantais: I gcás daoine nádúrtha, cóip de do chárta aitheantais nó de do phas; I gcás eintiteas, cóip de dhoiciméad oifigiúil ina bhfuil ainm, CBL agus seoladh na cuideachta.
Potrebni dokumenti:
• Dokaz o bankovnim podacima: Dokument kojim se potvrđuje vaš bankovni identitet: Potvrda o bankovnom računu ili preslika bankovnog izvoda (izdana u proteklih šest mjeseci) na kojem su navedeni ime i
prezime vlasnika računa, broj računa/IBAN, BIC/SWIFT kôd i naziv banke. Možete zacrniti ostale osjetljive informacije.
HR • Identifikacijski dokumenti: Za fizičke osobe, preslika osobne iskaznice ili putovnice; Za pravne osobe, preslika službenog dokumenta s nazivom, PDV brojem i adresom trgovačkog društva.
Szükséges dokumentumok:
• Banki információk igazolása: Az Ön banki azonosítóját igazoló dokumentum: banki azonosító (RIB) vagy (az elmúlt hat hónapban keltezett) bankszámlakivonat másolata, amely tartalmazza a számlatulajdonos nevét, a számlaszámot/
IBAN‐számot, a BIC/SWIFT‐kódot és a bank nevét. Egyéb érzékeny adatokat kitakarhat.
• Azonosító okmányok: Magánszemélyek esetében személyazonosító igazolványának vagy útlevelének másolata; Jogi személyek esetében a vállalat nevét, adószámát és címét tartalmazó hivatalos dokumentum másolata.
HU
Documenti richiesti:
• Prova delle informazioni bancarie: documento che certifica la Sua identità bancaria: RIB o copia dell'estratto conto bancario (datato negli ultimi sei mesi) indicante il nome del titolare del conto, il numero di conto/IBAN, il codice BIC/
SWIFT e il nome della banca. È possibile occultare altre informazioni sensibili.
• Documenti di identificazione: Per le persone fisiche, una copia della carta d'identità o del passaporto; Per le entità, una copia di un documento ufficiale recante il nome, il numero di partita IVA e l'indirizzo della società.
IT
Reikiami dokumentai:
• Banko sąskaitos duomenų patvirtinamasis dokumentas: Dokumentas, patvirtinantis jūsų banko sąskaitos rekvizitus: RIB arba banko sąskaitos išrašo (ne senesnio nei šešių mėnesių), kuriame nurodytas sąskaitos
turėtojo vardas ir pavardė arba pavadinimas, sąskaitos numeris / IBAN, BIC / SWIFT kodas ir banko pavadinimas, kopija. Kitą neskelbtiną informaciją galite pašalinti.
• Identifikavimo dokumentai: Fizinių asmenų atveju – jūsų asmens tapatybės kortelės arba paso kopija; Juridinių asmenų atveju – oficialaus dokumento, kuriame nurodytas įmonės pavadinimas, PVM mokėtojo kodas ir adresas.
LT
Prasītie dokumenti:
• Pierādījums par bankas informāciju: Jūsu bankas identitāti apliecinošs dokuments: RIB vai bankas konta izraksta kopija (ne vecāka par sešiem mēnešiem), kurā norādīts konta turētāja vārds/nosaukums, konta numurs/IBAN, BIC/
SWIFT kods un bankas nosaukums. Jūs varat padarīt nesalasāmu citu sensitīvu informāciju.
• Identifikācijas dokumenti: Fiziskām personām: personas apliecības vai pases kopija; Vienībām: tāda oficiāla dokumenta kopija, kurā norādīts uzņēmuma nosaukums, PVN maksātāja numurs un adrese.
LV
Dokumenti Meħtieġa:
• Prova ta’ Informazzjoni Bankarja: Dokument li jiċċertifika l‐identità bankarja tiegħek: RIB jew kopja tar‐rendikont bankarju (bid‐data fl‐aħħar sitt xhur) li turi l‐isem tad‐detentur tal‐kont, in‐numru tal‐kont/l‐ IBAN, il‐kodiċi BIC/
SWIFT, u l‐isem tal‐bank. Tista’ tħassar informazzjoni sensittiva oħra.
• Dokumenti ta’ Identifikazzjoni: Għall‐persuni fiżiċi, kopja tal‐karta tal‐identità jew tal‐passaport tiegħek; Għall‐entitajiet, kopja ta’ dokument uffiċjali bl‐isem, il‐VAT u l‐indirizz tal‐kumpanija.
MT
Vereiste documenten:
• Bewijs van bankinformatie: Een document waaruit uw bankidentiteit blijkt: RIB of een kopie van een bankafschrift (van de laatste zes maanden) met de naam van de rekeninghouder, het rekening‐/IBAN‐ nummer, de BIC/SWIFT‐
code en de naam van de bank. U kunt andere gevoelige informatie weglaten.
• Identificatiedocument: Voor natuurlijke personen, een kopie van uw identiteitskaart of paspoort; Voor entiteiten, een kopie van een officieel document met de naam, het btw‐nummer en het adres van de onderneming.
NL
Wymagane dokumenty:
• Dokument potwierdzający informacje bankowe: Dokument potwierdzający dane bankowe lub wyciąg z konta bankowego (z datą z ostatnich sześciu miesięcy), który zawiera imię i nazwisko właściciela konta, numer konta/
IBAN, kod BIC/SWIFT i nazwę banku. Możesz usunąć inne poufne informacje.
• Dokumenty tożsamości: W przypadku osób fizycznych – kopia dowodu osobistego lub paszportu; W przypadku podmiotów – kopia oficjalnego dokumentu z nazwą przedsiębiorstwa, numerem VAT i adresem.
PL
Documentos a fornecer:
• Prova das informações bancárias: Um documento que ateste a sua identidade bancária: uma declaração de identidade bancária (RIB) ou uma cópia do extrato bancário (com menos de seis meses) que indique o
nome do titular da conta, o número de conta/IBAN, o código BIC/SWIFT e o nome do banco. Pode ocultar outras informações sensíveis.
• Documentos de identificação: Para as pessoas singulares, uma cópia do seu bilhete de identidade ou passaporte; Para as entidades, uma cópia de um documento oficial com o nome, o número de IVA e o endereço da empresa.
PT
Documentele necesare:
• Dovada coordonatelor bancare: Un document care să ateste identitatea dumneavoastră bancară: extras de identitate bancară sau o copie a extrasului de cont (din ultimele ș ase luni) care să indice numele
titularului de cont, numărul de cont/IBAN, codul BIC/SWIFT și numele băncii. Puteți oculta alte informații sensibile.
• Documente de identificare: Pentru persoanele fizice, o copie a cărții de identitate sau a pașaportului dumneavoastră; Pentru entități, o copie a unui document oficial care să includă numele, numărul TVA și adresa societății.
RO
Požadované dokumenty:
• Doklad o bankových informáciách: Doklad potvrdzujúci vašu bankovú identitu: RIB alebo kópia výpisu z účtu (za posledných šesť mesiacov), na ktorom je uvedené meno majiteľa účtu, číslo účtu/IBAN, kód BIC/
SWIFT a názov banky. Môžete upraviť iné citlivé informácie.
SK • Identifikačné doklady: V prípade fyzických osôb kópia vášho preukazu totožnosti alebo pasu; V prípade subjektov kópia úradného dokladu s názvom spoločnosti, číslom DPH a adresou.
Zahtevani dokumenti`
• Dokazilo o bančnih podatkih: Dokument, ki potrjuje vašo bančno identiteto: Bančno potrdilo (RIB) ali kopija bančnega izpiska (iz zadnjih šestih mesecev), iz katerega so razvidni ime imetnika računa, številka računa/
IBAN, koda BIC/SWIFT in ime banke. Druge občutljive informacije lahko počrnite.
SL • Identifikacijski dokumenti: Za fizične osebe, kopija osebne izkaznice ali potnega lista; Za subjekte, kopija uradnega dokumenta z imenom, DDV in naslovom podjetja.
Nödvändiga handlingar:
• Bevis på bankuppgifter: En handling som styrker din bankidentitet: ett intyg om kontoinnehav eller en kopia av ett kontoutdrag (högst sex månader gammalt) som visar kontoinnehavarens namn, kontonummer/IBAN‐
nummer/BIC/SWIFT‐kod och bankens namn. Du får dölja annan känslig information.
• Identitetshandlingar: För fysiska personer, en kopia av ditt id‐kort eller pass; För juridiska personer, en kopia av ett officiellt dokument med företagets namn, momsregistreringsnummer och adress.
SVGUIDE FOR APPLICANTS
GRANTS PROGRAMME 2025-2026
TRAINING IN CONFERENCE INTERPRETING
The aim of this guide is to give a summary of the main points of the administrative and financial
processes governing grants from the Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation for
Conferences of the European Parliament (DG LINC - EP).
This guide is based on the rules and conditions contained in the legal documents relating to the grant
programme (in particular the Work Programme and the Grant Agreement). The guide for applicants
does not in itself have legal value, and thus does not supersede those documents. Only the
provisions of the signed grant agreement are binding.
Before completing the application form, applicants are advised to read carefully the call for
proposals and the accompanying documents on the website:
http://www.europarl.europa.eu/interpretation/en/universities/financial-assistance.html
The grant agreement models give detailed information on the rights and obligations of the beneficiary
of the grant.
I. FINANCIAL PROVISIONS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF GRANTS
The European Parliament has introduced since the academic year 2014-2015 some important
changes in financial modalities of the grants management:
• Co-financing rate of maximum 75 % of eligible costs for all selected projects1
• One single pre-financing payment of 70 %
II. GENERAL PRINCIPLES
• The grants aim to co-finance the action proposed by the applicant (hereafter called
“beneficiary”). The grant may not finance the entire costs of the action. Only costs that are
directly related to the project are eligible.
• The European Parliament’s co-financing level of actions under this scheme is up to 75% of
total eligible costs. The beneficiary must find ways of financing the remaining expenditures
that will not be covered by a grant.
• The grant may not give rise to profit under any circumstances. In other words, the
beneficiary’s revenues cannot exceed its expenditure. If the total amount of pre-financing
paid by the European Parliament exceeds the final amount of the grant determined at the
end of the project (according to the Final Financial Report), any amount paid in excess by
the European Parliament has to be paid back by the beneficiary (recovery order).
1 Subject to a possible reduction should the income of the action be greater than the expenditure as grants may not have
the purpose of generating a profit to the beneficiary.
1/8III. CALCULATION OF GRANT AWARD AND FINAL GRANT
The Evaluation Committee, composed of at least three independent officials, evaluates if the grant
proposals meet the exclusion, eligibility, selection and award criteria as defined in the call for
proposals.
The Evaluation Committee checks at the same time whether the budget is appropriate and reasonable
for achieving the objectives of the projects. Within this process some items of the applicant's proposed
budget might not be taken into consideration for co-financing (= non eligible costs), if they are
considered excessive or not necessary to implement the project. At the end of this analysis, an
approved draft eligible budget for the project is drawn up. The co-funding rate (75%) only refers to
that eligible budget and not to the total budget of the action.
The Evaluation Committee issues its recommendations on the award and the maximum amount of
each grant to the Authorising Officer who finally takes the award decision.
The final amount of the grant is only established at the end of the action, after analysis and approval
of the final reports. The EP calculates this definitive grant amount by applying the co-financing
percentage specified in the grant agreement to the eligible/approved final expenditure of the
project, hereby ensuring that the non profit-rule is respected.
The final amount of the grant can never exceed the maximum amount set in the grant agreement.
Example 1:
A post-graduate course has a total proposed/estimated budget of EUR 75.000. As the Evaluation Committee
considered some costs are ineligible, the total approved (eligible) budget retained for the Grant Agreement is
EUR 65.000. As a result the grant awarded amounts to EUR 48.750 (= 75% of 65.000).
If the final eligible expenditure at the end of the action amounts to EUR 50.000, the final maximum amount of the
grant will be 75% of EUR 50.000 = EUR 37.500, provided that the total income of the action does not exceed the
expenditure.
III. BUDGETING OF THE APPLICANT'S ACTION
1. General
Calculations should be transparent (units x costs/unit) and be based on actual costs in the
beneficiary’s accounting system.
The budget should cover the entire period of the grant. A grant may be awarded for an action which
has already begun only when the applicant can demonstrate the need to start the action before the
agreement is signed. In such cases, expenditure eligible for financing may not have been incurred
prior to the date of submission of the grant application. (Financial Regulation Art. 193)
The budget forecast in the application form should be always completed in euros.
For conversion to EUR please consult the web-site:
http://ec.europa.eu/budget/inforeuro/index.cfm?fuseaction=home&Language=en
All costs related to the project should be reflected in the budget, even if they do not have to be
sustained by the European Parliament. For example, if the student mobility of a university is
financed by 'Foundation X', it should be mentioned in the forecast budget as expenditure and income
as well. These costs will not be taken into consideration for co-financing but demonstrate other co-
financing sources.
Expenditure and income should be in balance. The grant may not generate any profit.
Each budget line should show a detailed breakdown of the planned expenditure.
For example, it is not enough to put € 2.690 in the category "teaching", but the costs should be detailed
in the following way:
• teacher A – 24 hours – € 20/hour = € 480
2/8• teacher B – 30 hours – € 32/hour = € 960
• teacher C – 50 hours – € 25/hour = € 1.250
The staff costs should be calculated per hour.
IMPORTANT:
Please inform us immediately (by email) if any changes occur after the submission of the
application. If your application is successful, they may be taken into consideration before the
signature of the grant agreement.
The same applies if changes occur after the agreement has been signed by both parties. The
European Parliament will then examine whether the changes require an amendment to the
agreement (see chapter V in this guide).
If, in order to carry out the action, the beneficiary has to conclude contracts which constitute costs
of the action under an item of eligible direct costs in the estimated budget, the beneficiary will award
the contract to the bid offering best value for money and take care to avoid any conflict of interests.
Where the value of the contract exceeds EUR 60.000, a provision may be included in the "Other
Special Conditions" of the grant agreement for specific rules of procedure to apply based on those
contained in the Financial Regulation with due regard to the estimated value of the contract, the
relative size of the Union contribution and the management risk (cfr. Article II.9 and II.10 of the grant
agreement model).
2. Eligible costs
Costs incurred are eligible if they:
• are directly connected with the project and are provided for in the approved budget;
• are necessary for the implementation of the project;
• are reasonable and justified and comply with the principles of sound financial management, in
particular in terms of value for money and cost-effectiveness;
• have been generated during the lifetime of the project as defined in the grant agreement;
• have actually been incurred by the beneficiary and recorded in his accounts or tax
documents and are identifiable and verifiable.
For detailed information on eligible costs please see Article II.19 of the model grant agreement.
3. Non-eligible costs
Please note that the following costs are not considered eligible (refer to Article II.19.4 of the grant
agreement).
• return on capital;
• debt and debt service charges;
• provisions for losses or potential future liabilities;
• interest owed;
• doubtful debts;
• exchange losses;
• VAT, unless the beneficiary can show that he is unable to recover it;
• costs declared by the beneficiary and covered by another action or work programme receiving
a European Union grant;
• contribution in kind;
• excessive or reckless expenditure;
• costs already supported by another project which is also benefitting from financial EU support
For detailed information on ineligible costs please see Article II.19.4 of the model grant agreement.
3/84. Third parties
If an applicant is supported by other parties which need to be co-financed, the legal entities of the third
parties as well as their respective budget incomes and expenditures should be mentioned in the
application form. The payments of the EU institution(s) will be made to the grant beneficiary who will
redistribute the amounts to the other parties according to their respective contribution to the action.
a) For minor contributions by third parties (e.g. small exchanges between other universities and
applicant) the standard agreement model will be used.
b) If the third parties play a major part in the action, the European Parliament may require the
signature of a multi-beneficiary grant agreement. In this case, the applicant, acting mainly as a
coordinator, will ask third parties for a mandate to act on behalf of the "co-beneficiaries".
5. Information on the budget chapters of expenditure (Section III of the application form)
a) Staff costs assigned to the operation (table 4.A of the application form)
Staff costs refer to any payment made to an internal or external person for the work directly connected
to this project. Please split the staff costs into categories such as internal/external staff, teachers, jury
members, speakers.
The hours spent for preparing the courses are eligible as well, within the limit of maximum 1 hour of
preparation for each hour for teaching. These hours need to be reported separately.
The normal remuneration policy of the applicant should be applied to this project.
Permanent, temporary or contractual staff of the European institutions may under no
circumstances be included in the staff costs of the project.
The staff expenditure on coordination and administration for the post-graduate course should be
kept low in comparison with the teaching staff costs. In this chapter report only costs directly related
to the course such as managing the timetable of the course, planning tests and exams, organising
study visits, mobility schemes, virtual classes and liaising with the European Parliament. Accountancy
work and occasional secretarial activities should be reported under general costs.
In the budget the hourly rates multiplied by the number of hours per person should be marked.
To calculate the hourly rate of the staff on the project please apply following principle:
Hourly rate = actual gross salary per year (including social charges, pension contribution etc.) divided
by total "workable" days/per year x hours/day.
The workable days are the calendar days less weekends, less annual holidays, less bank holidays
etc.
Please use the Excel table annexed to the call for proposals to calculate the hourly rates. Once the
hourly rate is calculated they should be multiplied by the hours worked on the project and indicated in
the table 4.A. The individual calculations must be attached to the application form in Annex VI.
For reporting to the European Parliament, the beneficiary needs to keep track of the number of hours
each person/staff member worked on the project.
For that reason timesheets (on an hourly basis) must be maintained during the course of the project
showing the names of those involved, their roles, the number of hours per month.
These sheets should be validated by the signature of the persons involved and counter-signed by the
responsible person at the university. They have to be provided when requested by the European
Parliament at any time during the project. A timesheet template is provided as an annex to this call for
proposals.
4/8b) Travel and subsistence expenses for staff/persons involved in the operation (table 4.B of
the application form)
Only travel expenses and subsistence costs directly related to the project and clearly identifiable
activities arising from the project will be considered eligible. Please indicate therefore clearly the
person travelling, place of departure and arrival, days of stay, cost of the journey etc. Travel and
subsistence costs are based on the actual costs incurred. The most economical fares (Apex tickets,
economy class etc.) must be used.
Subsistence costs (hotel accommodation and per diem, covering local expenses like meals and local
transport) are eligible for co-financing provided they are essential, reasonable and properly
documented. The policy of the applicant in terms of travel and subsistence shall be followed.
If several events are planned please split the costs for each event.
c) Costs of equipment (table 4.C of the application form)
Only equipment purchased for the purposes of carrying out the action can be charged as direct costs.
To be considered as eligible, a cost must be determined according to the beneficiary's usual
accounting practice and each beneficiary must apply its usual depreciation system for durable
equipment. Depreciated costs of equipment can never exceed the purchase price of the equipment.
Only the portion of the equipment used on the project may be charged. The amount of use
(percentage used and time) must be auditable.
In the case of rental or leasing, the cost of any buy-out option at the end of the lease or rental period
is ineligible.
The installation, maintenance and insurance costs of eligible hardware and equipment are eligible,
but are limited to the proportional use of the equipment for the project.
The equipment may not be purchased prior to the start of the period of eligible expenditure
indicated in the agreement, except in the cases of renewed projects where the depreciation costs
were allowed as eligible expenditure for the previous contractual year(s).
Only the portion of the equipment's depreciation corresponding to the (remaining) duration of the
project and the rate of actual use for the purpose of the project can be taken into account by the
European Parliament, except where a different arrangement is justified by the nature and/or context
of the equipment's use.
Equipment costs (Purchase Value) * Remaining months from the purchase
date until the end date of the action covered by the grant / Life span of the item
(months) * Usage rate
Examples:
Description Items Cost of Total Remaining Depreciation Costs Usage Final
purchase cost of months span with rate costs
or rent/item purchase of grant (in months) depreciation for
(EUR) (EUR) action action
Example 1: 2 10.000 20.000 11 60 (5 years) 20.000 *11/60 60% 2.200,00
New booths = 3.666,66
(purchased on
18/09/N-
End of action
foreseen 31/07/N+1)
Example 2: 1 1.200 1.200 8 36 (3 years) 1.200 *8/36 100% 266,66
Laptop (purchased in = 266,66
24/12/N-
End of action
foreseen 31/07/N+1)
Total identical to heading C in Table 1 EUR
5/8d) Costs of consumables and supplies (table 4.D of the application form)
The applicant should include in this chapter costs like teaching material (books, DVDs etc.) and
which are used exclusively for the action proposed. Blank CDs, DVDs, photocopies and stationary
are considered as office supplies and are eligible under general costs.
e) Conferences and Meetings (table 4.E of the application form)
Organisation costs can include items such as rent of rooms, rent or purchase of materials.
If several events are planned please split the costs for each event.
f) Any other direct costs (table 4.F of the application form)
These are costs which cannot be indicated under another category or item of expenditure. They must
be fully documented and clearly itemised in the application and report.
g) General costs charged to the operation (table 4.G of the application form)
These are overhead costs or indirect costs related to project management, such as bank charges,
communication costs and office supplies (postage, fax, telephone, mailing, internet, stationary,
photocopies, office supplies etc), rent of the premises used for the project.
The item “General costs” may not cover or overlap with staff costs or any other costs already declared
for another item in Chapter A to F. The General costs are calculated as 7% maximum of the total of
the direct costs of Chapter A to F; any amount exceeding this percentage will be ineligible. They
do not need to be justified by invoices.
IV. AGREEMENTS
If the proposal is selected for funding, the applicant will receive two (original) grant agreements which
should both be sent back to the address indicated, initialled, signed and dated. The beneficiary will
then receive from the European Parliament a countersigned original. Only when the agreement has
been signed by both parties, the beneficiary is entitled to the grant.
If the third parties play a major part in the action, the European Parliament may require the
signature of a multi-beneficiary grant agreement. In this case, the applicant, acting mainly as a
coordinator, will ask third parties for a mandate to act on behalf of the "co-beneficiaries". The financial
responsibility will be limited to each institution's/partner's share of a grant.
V. AMENDMENTS
Modifications after signature of the grant agreement must be submitted by the beneficiary and
authorised by the European Parliament in writing in good time before it is due to take effect, and in all
cases one month before the closing date of the action, except in cases duly substantiated by the
beneficiary and accepted by the European Parliament.
Otherwise expenditure that was not foreseen in the beneficiary’s initial budget (Annex III of grant
agreement) cannot be considered as eligible and will not be taken into consideration in the final
calculation of the grant.
An amendment is needed for transfers of over 10% of the initial estimated eligible costs of the
budgetary chapter for which the transfer is intended and for amounts which are at the same
time higher than 3.000 € (see also I.7. and II.22 of the model grant agreement) and to changes in
the nature of expenditure or to the addition of items of expenditure (e.g. purchase of a computer
instead of microphones etc).
After the amendment has been signed by both parties, the beneficiary will receive by email the
amended report forms.
In this case a simple acknowledgement or approval of the changes by email/letter does not suffice.
6/8Example 3:
The beneficiary needs to purchase an equipment of an amount of 2.900€ not foreseen originally in the
budget (the equipment foreseen in chapter C values 1.000€), on the other hand a travel expenditure of
2.800€ will be cut.
Normally the additional budget added of 2.900€ is more than 10% of the initial budget of 1.000€ in Chapter
C) but as the amount transferred is still less than 3.000€ no amendment is needed.
It is however still necessary to inform the European Parliament (before the purchase) by email
as they have to agree on the nature of expenditure.
VI. REPORTING AND PAYMENTS
The beneficiary is entitled to the final balance payment only upon approval of the correctly
completed and submitted report forms.
The beneficiary has to certify that the financial documents submitted to the European Parliament
comply with the financial provisions of the agreement, that the costs declared are real costs, and that
all receipts have been declared. (Art II.19 and II.20 of model grant agreement).
1. Invoices
Please send individual copies or original invoices only upon request.
Please complete (electronically) the "overview list of invoices" summary table (Annex IV C). The
invoices must be kept by the beneficiary for 5 years after the last payment made by the European
Parliament and should be available on request.
2. Timesheets
To justify the time that (internal and external) staff dedicates to the action, timesheets should be kept
in case of a random control.
3. VAT (Value added taxes)
The budget forecast and financial reports should exclude VAT which the applicant/beneficiary may
exempt from or be refunded.
4. Currency (for non-Euro-Zone-countries)
Please convert the currency in which the payments are made into euros (€) using the average of the
monthly exchange rate (see website http://ec.europa.eu/budget/inforeuro/) of the action's duration.
Organisations established in countries outside the Euro-zone should be aware that they bear
possible losses of currency exchange.
5. Payments
The grant will be paid in two instalments. The pace of payments will vary according to the risk
assessment made by the European Parliament. In principle, payments will be made as follows:
a) Pre-financing instalment
The applicant will receive 70% of the grant (if stipulated in the agreement) after the grant agreement
has been signed by both parties.
b) Final payment
The final report should be submitted as early as possible after the end of the action and not
later than stipulated in the grant agreement.
7/8Following forms, duly completed, signed and dated, have to be sent in:
• Final Technical Report on the action's implementation
• Final Financial Statement on final expenditure and revenue
• Obligatory Details of Expenditure
• and, upon request: copies of invoices & timesheets
FOR ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS RELATED TO THE GRANT APPLICATION,
THE GRANT AGREEMENT AND ITS MANAGEMENT, PLEASE CONTACT:
LINC.grants@ep.europa.eu
8/8DG LINC - Financial support for training in conference interpreting
Call for proposals 2025-2026
Questions received during the previous calls for proposals
Question 1
We are unable to fill in the table “Staff costs by hourly rate” corresponding to Annex 6 of
application form for each person (for both external and internal teachers, technician, the external
members of the final exam panel) since we do not know the exchange rate and most importantly
we do not know exactly the name and the exact hours taught by the given persons the next
academic year since it depends largely on how many students we accept and their language
combination.
We have already been granted support within the framework of this grant scheme and always
made estimates in the budget table in a uniform way (xxx EUR) both for external and internal
teachers. Can we do the same this year as well?
Answer 1
We understand that applicants do not necessarily have all the elements for calculating the exact
individual hourly rates when completing their application forms. As the objective, at this stage,
is to establish an estimated budget, we would suggest that you use the actual data for staff
already identified and estimate as accurately as possible the costs of other people that could
be involved in the action (i.e. teacher with a profile similar to the one of another teacher already
identified; external teacher with a contract similar to the one granted to another external teacher,
etc.).
As your project should include an estimate of the number of accepted students and their
possible language combinations, we suggest that you use this information as a hypothesis to
prepare your budget. After award decision and if your application is successful, the budget will
be fine-tuned, based on the most recent information available at that moment. Unless it is
common practice at your university, using a uniform hourly rate for all staff profiles is not
recommended as this could lead to a request from the Evaluation Committee for more detailed
calculations. Your Human Resources Department may assist you in this matter.
Question 2
Regarding the possibility offered to update the existing equipment in order to supply
simultaneous interpretation exercises, do we understand correctly that the European Parliament
shall finance 75% of the total cost within the action? And that we do not need to depreciate it
over the following academic years?
Answer 2
The special conditions on depreciation of equipment used for virtual classes do not apply
anymore for the grants programme from 2017 onwards. This equipment will be treated as any
1/11other type of equipment purchased for the project. Please refer to point 5.c of the Guide for
Applicants for further information on the rules related to equipment cost.
Question 3
I am not sure if we are expected to submit with the grant the time sheets we use to calculate
the trainers/coordinators' fees. That is to say, do you want to see the time sheets with the grant
or are we to submit them later during the audit, if need be?
Answer 3
The time sheets annexed to the call for proposals should give an idea what needs to be filled in
by the universities during the lifetime of the project if a grant is awarded. No need to fill in any
time sheet at the stage of the application. Please note that hourly rates must be reported in
Annex VI of the application form and should be calculated according to instructions contained
in the excel table "Staff costs by hourly rate" provided on the internet page.
Question 4
I am not sure about the form called 'Budget Details' (Annex VI). Should we fill in this form rather
than the similar form that is already part of the application form under the link called a) Actions
related to organisation of a master' or b) Project aimed at supporting conference interpreter
training?
Answer 4
We recommend you complete Annex VI (Staff costs - Excel sheet) following the instructions
contained in the file in order to give more information about the individual calculation of hourly
rates. The hourly rates calculated in the excel sheet have then to be used to fill table 4.A Staff
costs.
Question 5
Does the professor who is permanently employed have to be classified as P or S?
Answer 5
If the tasks of Professor X for the project belong to his normal tasks, they should be mentioned
as P indicating the total hours worked on the project. If the same Professor X, permanently
employed, receives an extra salary duly approved and paid by the University for supplementary
work on the project (not foreseen in his/her work contract and therefore paid in supplement) this
extra salary should be mentioned as S.
Question 6
What do we have to list under teacher external - Should we list all external teachers?
Answer 6
Yes, you should list all external teachers. See also reply to question 1.
2/11Question 7
In my country data on salaries are confidential according to the law on personal data protection.
What should I do?
Answer 7
As mentioned on item 15 of the call for proposals and articles II.5 and II.6 of the draft grant
agreement, all information contained in your application will be treated in full confidentiality and
respect of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the
processing of personal data by the Union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the
free movement of such data. You therefore must disclose the requested information in your
application and subsequent reports.
Question 8
Where do we enter the technicians' work in the budget?
Answer 8
Works foreseen for technician staff should be reported under Chapter A. Staff Costs - Others
describing shortly the tasks/estimated total productive hours/hourly rate and if paid as
permanent staff within his/her normal duties (P), paid in supplement to his normal duties (S) or
both. Detailed calculation must be included in Annex VI "Hourly rate".
Question 9
On depreciation and amortisation rules in this year's grant application. We are asked to state
how many months remain between the purchase date and the end of the project. At this stage,
it is very difficult to predict the purchase date. So how should we deal with this?
Answer 9
Even if very difficult, you should try to estimate the purchase date keeping into account all the
possible elements, such as: internal rules in the field of procurement, normal time between the
decision to buy an equipment and the reception of this equipment, purchase conditioned by the
reception of a grant, purchase not possible before 2015, etc. It is not recommended to consider
that all purchases will be done during the first month of the project as this would unnecessarily
increase the total estimated budget of the action and would lead to an under-spending of the
actual grant.
Reporting amortisation costs the years following the purchase is authorized if the equipment is
still used for implementing the new actions.
Question 10
On hourly staff rates: we are asked to calculate them in a specific way, calculating the number
of hours per day x 365 minus weekends. This does not make sense in our country, as our
salaries are not accounted in this way. Full-time staff has a working week of 35 hours but apart
from their teaching time are free to organise their work-time as they wish. The faculty is open
on Saturdays and staff often works over weekends (I have spent many hours over the past 2
weekends working on the grant application!). So could we propose that we take the real
3/11calculation method and not the one suggested on the table. 35 hours * 4 weeks * 12 months =
1.680 hours instead of 7 hours * 365 days - week-ends
Answer 10
We recommend the calculation method suggested on the table for several reasons:
Firstly, your calculation results in a total of 48 weeks (4 weeks * 12 months) while a year is
composed of 52 weeks.
Secondly, if work is regularly done during weekends, you should estimate how many hours
during weekends are usually worked per year and add this total to the productive hours. We
understand that permanent staff is paid on the basis of a fixed number of hours rather than on
the basis of hours effectively worked but we consider that each hour worked by a staff member
has the same value independently of the moment and the nature of the work done. It is for this
reason that we consider hours spent during weekends eligible if justified (either for courses
taught during weekends or for coordination work).
Question 11
Does the Rector of our university sign only the grant application Form (at the end) or does he
also have to sign the two annexes that will be attached to it (annexes h and i)?
Answer 11
Only the grant application form needs to be signed by the Rector (or any other legal
representative) on behalf of the university.
Question 12
What is the difference between permanent, external and complementary salary? At our study
program we only have permanent administrative staff on the payroll of the Rectorate of the
University; all others are employed with different legal entities so I suppose you would consider
them as external staff? If this is the case, should I fill only columns 9-11? Is administrative staff
receiving a complementary salary for work done at this study program or something else?
Answer 12
- All the permanent staff of the legal entity requesting the grant (=university), involved in the
project, has to be reported under P (permanent) category. In most of the cases, it is the
University itself that has to be considered as the legal entity and not a department, a faculty, the
Rectorate's services...
- Staff to be reported as external are those paid on a contractual basis (as opposed to permanent
staff) and hired for a specific work and period of time, on an hourly basis. This should be reported
under the category external teachers, freelances...
- Complementary salary concerns, if applicable, extra salary that could be paid to permanent
staff (teaching and administrative staff) if approved and paid by the University for supplementary
work on the project (not foreseen in his/her work contract and therefore paid in supplement).
This should be mentioned as S. (see also general instructions under Section III of the application
form).
4/11Question 13
Given the market demand for retour, the importance of English in the European context of
conference interpreting as well as frequent inquiries from potential candidates interested in
studying conference interpreting at our University with English A, our Faculty of Translation and
Interpreting would very much like to expand the scope of its current Master's interpreting
programme by introducing English as a second A language, thus offering students the
opportunity to train into English A and to develop competence in retour from our national
language into English. Would this project be eligible for the DG Grants?
Answer 13
The project as described by you would fall within the scope of this call for proposals and would
therefore be eligible for evaluation, provided all other eligibility, exclusion and selection criteria
are met (see points 5-7 of the call for proposals).
The Evaluation Committee will assess the applications on the basis of the award criteria and
give points for each of the criteria (see point 8 of the call for proposals). It will establish a list of
accepted applications ranked according to their merits and the total number of points obtained.
Please note that relevance to priority needs for languages of the European Parliament and the
EU institutions and bodies for which it provides interpretation services is one of the award
criteria.
Award of grants will be made on the basis of this ranking and the available budget. Applicants
should be aware that even if they reach the required minimum score to be accepted (60% of
the total points), the application may be not retained in case the available budget is already
exhausted for applications with higher scores.
Question 14
My question concerns the financial identification form: our University uses a financial
identification form which is slightly different in format from the one on the webpage, but the
information is exactly the same. Moreover, the form was already used to submit an application
and accepted by DG INTE in previous years. Is it absolutely necessary to use the model which
you provide or are other models accepted?
Answer 14
As indicated in Annex III of the application form, a financial identification form has to be supplied
only if the account number or the bank account holder’s name has changed since the last grant
request submitted. In this case, you should use the proposed template as the one used in
previous years was the one used by the European Commission.
If there are no changes in the bank account details since the last grant request submitted in the
recent years, you just have to tick the first box of Annex III and mention the IBAN number on it.
Question 15
My question relates to how we should best approach the grant application.
If we were to opt for a project-specific approach, our application could be based on a
combination of creation of digital speech repository/logbook/virtual classes. If on the other hand
we were to opt for the more general approach, our application could be based on the
renewal/installation of new conference interpreting infrastructure. Could you therefore please
5/11inform us about which application form should we best choose (Application form 2014-2015
post-graduate course VS Application form 2014-2015 – other projects)?
Answer 15
You will find more information on the objectives of the call and the types of projects sought
under point 1 and 2 of the call for proposals text. Actions aimed solely at the purchase of
equipment do not fall under the scope of the call.
If your project proposal aims at organisation of master/post-graduate courses in conference
interpreting, please use the application form “2017-2018 post graduate course”. If on the
contrary, you intend to submit a proposal aimed at promoting conference interpreter training
(see point 2.b of the call for proposals text for the priority areas for this action line), you should
use the application form “2017-2018 other projects”.
Question 16
a) We understand that there is a possibility to ask for funding from both of the Institutions. But
on the other hand, in your call for proposals you mention that one action can receive only one
grant from the EU budget. More specifically we have considered submitting a project covering
teaching and organizational expenditures to one institution and submitting a project aimed at
constructing a new language lab to the other. Would that be possible?
b) Do you have any indication on what project size is feasible? Our faculty struggles with old
and out-dated equipment, which makes for example distance teaching very complicated. At the
moment we cannot participate in any e-learning or virtual classes. Therefore, we very much
appreciate the fact that the EP is willing to invest into new equipment. But will it be possible to
cover the full expenditures of a new language lab or should we rather opt for reconstructing an
old one? Are there any limits on the eligibility of expenditures? For example can we ask for the
funding for the construction of new booths? (bearing in mind that our language is the third
priority).
Answer 16
a) It is possible to apply at the same time for another EU programme (see answer to question
18). Please note however that purchase of equipment can be considered as eligible cost only if
it is part of a project corresponding to the objectives of the call for proposals. You will find more
information on the objectives of the call and the types of projects sought under point 1 and 2 of
the call for proposals text. Actions aimed solely at the purchase of equipment do not fall under
the scope of the call.
b) The Evaluation Committee checks whether the budget proposed by the applicant is
appropriate and reasonable for achieving the objectives of the projects. There are no pre-
defined limits of expenditure, provided that the costs are necessary to implement the project
and eligible. For detailed information on eligible costs please see section III of the Guide for
Applicants and Article II.19 of the model grant agreement.
Question 17
I understand that as of 2014 grants are no longer jointly funded by DG LINC, European
Parliament, and SCIC and the calls for proposals are separate. What I am not clear about is
whether we can apply to one institution only or both. Is there a likelihood that separate funding
schemes could also lead to smaller grant allocations?
6/11Answer 17
In the past years the interpretation services of both the European Commission and the
European Parliament managed indeed a joint call for proposals. The decision on the award of
the grant was taken jointly by both institutions and very few proposals were sometimes jointly
managed by both Institutions. However from last year, it was decided that individual grants
would be financed and managed either by the Parliament or by the Commission separately, so
there was no joint funding of individual grants anymore.
As of 2014, the institutions launched separate calls for proposals. As far as the European
Parliament is concerned, this change shall not lead to smaller grants allocations. The single co-
financing rate applied by the European Parliament is 75% of total eligible costs (subject to a
possible reduction should the income of the action be greater than the expense as grants may
not have the purpose of generating a profit to the beneficiary).
It is possible to apply for another EU programme. However, the same action cannot be financed
twice out of the EU budget. Should your project be selected for two grant programmes you will
have to choose the granting institution (coordination between DG LINC and DG SCIC shall
occur during the assessment of the applications received).
Please note that the Evaluation Committee checks whether the budget proposed by the
applicant is appropriate and reasonable for achieving the objectives of the projects. Within this
process some items of the applicant's proposed budget might not be taken into consideration
for co-financing (= non eligible costs), if they are considered excessive or not necessary to
implement the project (please refer to the Guide for Applicants for more information on the
procedure).
Question 18
I noticed the criteria include mention of the EMCI requirements for the number of hours of
practical tuition. If we are unable to meet this standard, would a bid be considered or would it
be rejected outright?
Answer 18
The call for proposals mentions different award criteria. If an application is not (fully) compliant
with one or more criteria, it does not mean that it will be automatically rejected. The
Evaluation Committee will assess the applications on the basis of the evaluation criteria and
award points for each of the criteria. It will establish a list of accepted applications ranked
according to their merits and the total number of points obtained.
Award of grants will be made on the basis of this ranking and the available budget. Applicants
should be aware that even if they reach the required minimum score to be accepted (60% of
the total points), the application may be rejected in case the available budget is already
exhausted for applications with higher scores.
Question 19
Supposing we want to buy equipment of a total value of 1000 euros, should the University pay
250 euros of this particular expense? Or the contribution of the University should be 25% of the
total value of the costs, meaning that those 1000 euros can be paid entirely from the grant while
other expenses related to the programme will be covered by the University?
7/11Answer 19
The maximum contribution of the European Parliament is 75% of the eligible costs. The
remaining 25% must be provided by the applicant. It can be via the direct revenue expected
from the action (fees paid by students), specific support from public sources or self-financing by
the applicant.
To be eligible, equipment has to be bought for the implementation of the action and paid by the
applicant. You do not need to provide more information neither about which faculty, nor from
which specific budget it is paid.
To answer concretely to your question, even if the invoice has to be registered in the accounting
system of the applicant and totally paid by him, you do not need to justify that the remaining
25% of this particular expense has been, at the end, supported or not by the University. The
own contribution of the applicant is assessed as a whole and not on each item.
Question 20
We intend to submit an application for a collaborative project involving 5 partners. The
question is whether an official co-coordination could be accepted, with one of the project
partners, in the EU, coordinating the budget and another project partner, not in the EU,
coordinating the content.
The sharing of responsibilities can be made clear in the body of the text proposal, but as you
know, universities need to make themselves visible, hence the wish to make the co-
coordination known.
Answer 20
Should a project involve more than one partner, it is indeed vital to give detailed information
about the tasks and responsibilities of each partner. This information is crucial in order to allow
the Evaluation Committee members to assess the project according to the selection and award
criteria. Please note that, in any case, the grant agreement will be signed with one coordinating
partner who will be accountable to the European Parliament for carrying out the action and who
will act as a single contact point for any questions related to the project (be it administrative,
budgetary or content-wise).
Question 21
We would like to know if we can apply for the grant, because we are not entirely a university.
We are a participatory foundation established by the local municipality with the aim of
managing four higher education Art and Culture schools (music, cinema and drama, as well as
interpreting and translating).
One of the schools is bringing together a School for Language Mediation (a three-year
program, equivalent to an undergraduate degree -level), a School of International Relations
and a School of Translation and Interpretation (Master’s degree courses in cooperation with
another European University). The last mentioned School trains students to become
conference interpreters (simultaneous and consecutive) at the levels required by European
institutions. It is one of the four degree programs in the country recognized by the EU’s DG
Interpretation.
8/11Answer 21
Based on the point 5 “Eligible applicants” in the call for proposals, your foundation can be
considered eligible to apply for DG LINC grants if any of the objectives of your establishment
are related to the programme and they are recognised by the national authorities.
Question 22
We host a two-year Master’s degree course in Conference Interpreting (120 ects awarded);
after an admission test in July, the 1st and 2nd year courses are held simultaneously every year
from October to July.
We would like to ask you if it is possible to apply for the grant with our whole two-year course
(1st and 2nd semester 2020/2021 of both years) or if we have to choose between one of them.
Answer 22
The point 10.b in the Call for proposals for financial support for training in conference interpreting
2020-2021 states the principle of non-cumulative award and prohibition of double funding, which
is based on article 191 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union.
According to this rule, each action may give rise to the award of only one grant from the budget
to any one beneficiary. Therefore, you need to choose for which year you wish to submit your
application (i.e. either the 1st or 2nd year of the 2-year Master’s degree).
Question 23
We organise once in few years the consecutive and simultaneous modules for Italian into the
main A language of the training programme in interpreting. As the modules are not organised
every year, trainers do not have permanent positions, which makes it financially more difficult
for us to hire new ones (permanent staff is paid on regular contracts covering the department
as a whole, not every trainer individually).
As a result, we would like to apply for funding for the teaching modules for Italian only. It is a bit
hard to find a spot on the application form where we can clearly state that information. We hope
such a partial application is possible and would appreciate any information on that.
Answer 23
In principle, it would be possible to submit an application for only one module of a training
programme in interpreting by specifying this in the “Project title” (Section II of the application
form for post-graduate courses).
However, only projects which have satisfied the requirements of the eligibility, exclusion and
selection criteria will be considered for further evaluation by the Evaluation Committee on the
basis of the award criteria listed in point 8 of the call for proposals.
In that sense, a partial project might receive lower points than if the application was submitted
for the complete interpreter training programme and risk not to obtain the requested threshold
of 60% (of maximum possible points).
9/11Moreover, the Evaluation Committee will establish a list of accepted applications ranked
according to their merits and the total number of points obtained. Award of grants will be made
on the basis of this ranking and the available budget. Applicants should be aware that even if
they reach the required minimum score to be accepted (60% of the total points), the application
may be rejected in case the available budget is already exhausted for applications with higher
scores.
Therefore, we recommend submitting an application that covers the entire training programme
in interpreting.
Question 24
Can we apply for a grant for an existing training programme in interpreting?
Answer 24
The call for proposals for financial support for training in conference interpreting is usually
published for a specific academic year (e.g. 2020-2021). Thus, existing training programmes
may apply and fall into the action line a) Organisation of high-quality master of post-graduate
courses in conference interpreting.
10/11Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences
Directorate for Interpretation
Language priorities - European Parliament, Directorate-General for
Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences (DG LINC)
- Grants academic year 2025/2026 -
The aim of DG LINC is to assist the training of interpreters of high quality for the language
combinations for which short-term or long-term needs have been identified.
The language priorities identified are listed, per active language (A), in the table below.
Priority Active languages (A)
1st DA, EN, GA, MT, UK
2nd BG, DE, EL, FI, SV, PT
3rd CS, ES, FR, HR, HU, IT, NL, SK
4th ET, LT, LV, PL, RO, SL
5th a) candidate country languages: BS, CG, MK, SQ, TR, SR, KA
b) non-EU official languages: AR, HE, KU, EU
*******
LINC.GRANTS@europarl.europa.eu - www.europarl.europa.eu
https://www.europarl.europa.eu/contracts-and-grants/en/grants/interpretation-for-conferencesLanguage abbreviations
1st DA: Danish
priority EN: English
GA: Irish
MT: Maltese
UK: Ukrainian
2nd BG: Bulgarian
priority DE: German
EL: Greek
FI: Finnish
SV: Swedish
PT: Portuguese
3rd CS: Czech
priority ES: Spanish
FR: French
HR: Croatian
HU: Hungarian
IT: Italian
NL: Dutch
SK: Slovak
4th ET: Estonian
priority LT: Lithuanian
LV: Latvian
PL: Polish
RO: Romanian
SL: Slovenian
5th a) BS: Bosnian b) AR: Arabic
priority CG: Montenegrin HE: Hebrew
MK: Macedonian KU: Kurdish
SQ: Albanian EU: Basque
TR: Turkish
SR: Serbian
KA: Georgian
*******Directorate-General for Logistics and Interpretation for Conferences
Directorate for Interpretation
Multilingualism & Succession Planning Unit
GRANTS AWARDED 2024-2025
TOPIC 1 - Organisation of post-graduate courses in conference interpreting
Applicants Grant awarded (EUR)
Eötvös Loránd University (ELTE), Hungary €50.589,00
Universita ta Malta, Malta €40.128,54
Univerzita Komenskeho v Bratislave, Slovakia €59.032,45
Institut de management et de communication interculturels
€127.960,23
(ISIT), Paris, France
Vilniaus univesitetas, Lithuania €35.729,22
Sofia University St Kliment Ohridski, Bulgaria €44.982,69
Total €358.422,13
TOPIC 2 - Promotion of excellence in conference interpreting training, cooperation
among universities and research into technical developments in the area of conf. inter.
Applicants Grant awarded (EUR)
Univerzita Komenskeho v Bratislave, Slovakia €13.151,50
Université de Genève, Switzerland €50.601,64
Total €63.753,14
TOPIC 3 - Organisation of post-graduate or bachelor courses in conference interpreting
(relevance to the priority needs for the Ukrainian language at the EP)
Grant awarded (EUR)
Applicant
Vasyl Stefanyk Precarpathian National University, Ukraine
€24.680,89
Ivan Franko National University of Lviv, Ukraine
€87.637,01
Ternopil Volodymyr Hnatiuk national pedagogical Univ., Ukraine
€8.488,94
Odeskyiy Nationalniy Univestitet Imeni I.I. Mechnikova, Ukraine
€25.537,80
Volodymyr Vynnychenko Central Ukrainian State University
(CUSU), Ukraine €12.987,00
Lviv Polytechnic National University, Ukraine
€37.268,10
Total €196.559,74
Grants 2024-2025 Total €618.735,01GUIDE FOR COMPLETING THE FINANCIAL IDENTIFICATION FORM - TRANSLATIONS INDEX
• EN
• BG
• CS
• DA
• DE
• EL
• ES
• ET
• FI
• FR
• GA
• HR
• HU
• IT
• LT
• LV
• MT
• NL
• PL
• PT
• RO
• SK
• SL
• SVEN
GUIDE FOR COMPLETING THE FINANCIAL IDENTIFICATION FORM
The Financial Identification Form (FIF) collects essential financial and legal details required for payment processing and setting
up your account in European Parliament’s (EP) accounting system. Follow these instructions carefully to ensure complete and
accurate form submission.
The form is in English (translations to all EU languages provided on the back pages), but you can fill it in any of the EU
official languages, without using special characters. Please also fill this form using only Latin characters, ensuring that
the information matches exactly what appears on your ID or company registration documents. If your name or address
is originally written in a non-Latin alphabet, such as Cyrillic or Greek, please use standardized transcription rules to
accurately convert it into Latin characters.
Section 1: Legal Entity Type and VAT Number
Legal Entity Type
Indicate the type of entity that best describes your legal status.
• Legal Entity With VAT: Refers to a business or organization that is registered to collect and pay Value-Added Tax
(VAT) on goods or services - VAT payer.
• Legal Entity Without VAT: Refers to a business or public organisation, which is not registered for VAT and is not
VAT-payer.
• Natural Person: An individual person who operates independently or as a sole trader.
• Group of Economic Operators WITHOUT Legal Entity: A group of economic operators without a legal entity is
managed differently from a group that has a legal entity. While a group with a legal entity is treated as a separate legal
entity distinct from its members, a group without a legal entity must appoint a leader to represent it in interactions with
the EP. The leader must be registered in the EP’s accounting system with all necessary details. Before registering the
group, it is essential to confirm that the leader already exists in the system. If not, an additional Financial Identification
Form (FIF) must be completed with the leader’s information. When the FIF is for the group without legal entity, the
option "Legal Entity without VAT" must be selected, and the Legal Entity Section should be completed to include the
group’s information.
VAT-Number
For entities registered to collect VAT, please enter EU Intra-Community VAT number (including the country code and number),
which can be verified in VIES VAT number validation system via https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Special Case of VAT Number for Natural Persons: If a natural person has a VAT number because she/he is a freelancer or a
sole trader, please include the VAT number in the available VAT field. This field is optional and can be left empty, but it is available
in case of need.
Section 2: Legal Entity Information
Please, provide details about the legal entity. Legal Entity is recognized by law with rights and obligations.
• Legal Form: Specifies the structure of the legal entity, such as limited liability company, or partnership, or non-profit
organisation, public body, etc.
• Organization Name: The official, registered name of the entity as specified in attached official document.
Section 3: Natural Person Information (for individuals only)
If you are completing this form as an individual, please provide your personal details, as they appear in your ID (using Latin
alphabet, without special characters):
• First Name(s): Your given name(s).
• Last Name(s): Your surname(s).
Section 4: Address
Enter the registered address details for the entity or individual: street, house number, postal code, town, country. Email
(optional): The electronic mail address for communication purposes. The email is not a mandatory field.
Section 5: Bank Information
Complete this section with your bank account details, as specified in attached RIB/bank statement: Provide details about the
bank and account to be used for payment transactions.
• Bank Name: the official name of the bank or financial institution.
• Account Holder Name: the name of the person or entity that owns the bank account.
• IBAN: International Bank Account Number, a standardized account identifier used for international transactions.
• SWIFT Code (BIC): A unique bank identifier code used for international wire transfers.
• Currency: The currency in which the account is denominated (e.g., EUR, USD, etc.).
• Account Number: if no IBAN is available, check "I do not have an IBAN number", to enable this field and provide bank
account number.
• Other Bank Identifier: this field allows for the inclusion of additional bank details required to register non-EU bank
accounts, particularly when an IBAN is unavailable.
Note: If the bank account holder's address differs from the main address of the legal entity/person provided above, please specify
the bank account holder's address.EN
Section 6: Form Submission and Authorization
Legal Entity’s representative must complete this section:
• Role (only for Legal Entities): Specifies the position or function of the legal entity's representative (e.g., owner,
director, sales manager, etc.).
• Date: date of form completion and submission.
As a final step, please, validate that all the provided information is accurate and complete to ensure payments are made
to the correct beneficiary. Once validated, this field locks the data to prevent any further changes.
Section 7: Required Documents
Please, attach the following documents to verify the information provided on the form and complete your submission. Ensure all
information in the form matches the details in your official documents to avoid processing delays:. Additionally, make sure the
attached documents are readable and of good quality to ensure smooth processing.
• Proof of Banking Information
A document certifying your banking identity: RIB or a copy of bank statement (dated within the last six months) showing
the account holder's name, account number/IBAN, BIC/SWIFT code, and bank name. You may redact other sensitive
information.
• Identification Documents
For natural persons, a copy of your ID card or passport;
For entities, a copy of an official document with the company’s name, VAT and address (e.g., certificate of
Incorporation, Business Registration Certificate, Extract from Commercial Register, VAT/Tax Registration Certificate;
Extract from a Government or Official Directory).
Regulatory provisions
Article 86 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 of the European Parliament and the Council of 23 September 2024 on the
financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (recast) states the following provisions:
Article 86.3 – Treasury Management
“Before entering into a commitment towards a third party, the authorising officer shall confirm the payee’s identity, establish the
legal entity and payment details of the payee and enter them in the common file by the Union institution for which the accounting
officer is responsible.
The accounting officer may only make payments if the payee’s legal entity and payment details have first been entered in a
common file by the Union institution for which the accounting officer is responsible.
Authorising officers shall inform the accounting officer of any change in the legal entity and payment details communicated to
them by the payee and shall check that those details are valid before they authorise any payment.”BG
РЪКОВОДСТВО ЗА ПОПЪЛВАНЕ НА ФОРМУЛЯРА ЗА ФИНАНСОВА ИДЕНТИФИКАЦИЯ
Формулярът за финансова идентификация (ФФИ) събира основните финансови и правни данни, необходими за
обработката на плащанията и създаването на Вашата сметка в счетоводната система на Европейския парламент (ЕП).
Следвайте внимателно тези инструкции, за да осигурите пълно и точно попълване и подаване на формуляра.
Формулярът е на английски език (на страниците на гърба са предоставени преводи на всички езици на ЕС), но
той се попълва на оригиналния език без специални знаци. Моля също така, попълнете този формуляр, като
използвате само латински букви, за да се уверите, че информацията съответства точно на информацията,
посочена във Вашия документ за самоличност или в документите за регистрация на дружеството. Ако Вашето
име или адрес първоначално е изписано на азбука, различна от латиница, като например кирилица или гръцки
език, моля, използвайте стандартизирани правила за транскрипция, за да го превърнете точно в латински букви.
Раздел 1: Вид правен субект и номер по ДДС
Вид правен субект
Посочете вида на субекта, който описва най-добре правния Ви статут.
• Правен субект с регистрация по ДДС Отнася се до предприятие или организация, които са регистрирани да
събират и плащат данък върху добавената стойност (ДДС) върху стоки или услуги — платец на ДДС.
• Правен субект без регистрация по ДДС Отнася се до предприятие или публична организация, които не са
регистрирани по ДДС и не са платец на ДДС.
• Физическо лице: Физическо лице, което осъществява дейност самостоятелно или като едноличен търговец.
• Група на икономически оператори БЕЗ правосубектност: Група на икономически оператори без
правосубектност се управлява по различен начин от група, която притежава правосубектност. Докато група,
която е с правосубектност, се третира в нейното качество на юридическо лице като отделен правен субект,
различен от нейните членове, то група без правосубектност трябва да определи ръководител, който да я
представлява в нейните отношения с ЕП. Ръководителят трябва да бъде регистриран в счетоводната система
на ЕП с всички необходими данни. Преди да се регистрира групата, от съществено значение е да се потвърди,
че ръководителят вече съществува в системата. В противен случай заедно с информацията за ръководителя
трябва да се попълни допълнителен формуляр за финансова идентификация (ФФИ). Когато ФФИ е за група
без правосубектност, трябва да се избере опцията „Правен субект без регистрация по ДДС“ и да се попълни
раздел „Правен субект“, за да се включи информацията за групата.
Номер по ДДС
За субекти, регистрирани за събиране на ДДС, моля, въведете вътреобщностния номер по ДДС в ЕС (включително
кода и номера на държавата), който може да бъде проверен в системата за валидиране на номера по ДДС VIES на
адрес https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Специален случай на номер по ДДС за физически лица: Ако физическо лице има номер по ДДС, тъй като то е лице
на свободна практика или едноличен търговец, моля, включете номера по ДДС в наличното поле за ДДС. Това поле не
е задължително и може да бъде оставено празно, но е налично при необходимост.
Раздел 2: Информация за правния субект
Моля, посочете подробни данни за правния субект. Правният субект е признат от закона като носител на права и
задължения.
• Правна форма Посочва се структурата на правния субект, като например дружество с ограничена отговорност
или съдружие, организация с нестопанска цел, публичен орган и др.
• Наименование на организацията: Официалното регистрирано наименование на субекта, както е посочено в
приложения официален документ.
Раздел 3: Информация за физическото лице (само за физически лица)
Ако попълвате този формуляр като физическо лице, моля, посочете вашите лични данни:
• Собствено име: Личното Ви име.
• Фамилно име: Вашето фамилно име.
Раздел 4: Адрес
Въведете данните за регистрирания адрес на субекта или физическото лице: улица, номер на улица или на жилищен
блок, пощенски код, град, държава. Електронен адрес (попълването не е задължително: Адресът на
електронната поща за целите на комуникацията. Полето за електронен адрес не е задължително.
Раздел 5: Информация за банката
Попълнете този раздел с данните за банковата Ви сметка, както е посочено в приложения идентификатор на банкова
сметка (RIB)/банково извлечение: Посочете подробни данни за банката и сметката, която ще се използва за платежни
операции.
• Наименование на банката: официалното наименование на банката или финансовата институция.
• Име на титуляря на сметката: името на лицето или субекта, който притежава банковата сметка.
• IBAN: Международен номер на банкова сметка — стандартизиран идентификационен код на сметката,
използван за международни трансакции.
• SWIFT код (BIC): Уникален банков идентификационен код, използван за международни електронни преводи.BG
• Валута: Валутата, в която е деноминирана сметката (напр. EUR, USD и др.).
• Номер на сметката: ако няма IBAN, проверете „Не разполагам с IBAN номер“, за да активирате това поле и да
посочите номера на банковата сметка.
• Друг банков идентификатор: това поле позволява включването на допълнителни банкови данни, необходими
за регистриране на банкови сметки извън ЕС, особено когато не е наличен IBAN.
Забележка: Ако адресът на титуляря на банковата сметка се различава от основния адрес на посочения по-горе правен
субект/лице, моля, посочете адреса на титуляря на банковата сметка.
Раздел 6: Формуляр за подаване и разрешение
Представителят на правния субект трябва да попълни този раздел:
• Роля (само за правни субекти): Посочва се длъжността или функцията на представителя на правния субект
(напр. собственик, директор, ръководител по продажбите и др.).
• Дата: дата на попълване и подаване на формуляра.
На последно място, моля, потвърдете, че цялата предоставена информация е точна и пълна, за да се гарантира,
че плащанията се извършват към правилния бенефициер. След като бъде валидирано, това поле блокира
данните, за да се предотвратят по-нататъшни промени.
Раздел 7: Необходими документи
Моля, приложете следните документи, за да потвърдите информацията, предоставена във формуляра, и да завършите
неговото подаване. Уверете се, че цялата информация във формуляра съответства на данните във Вашите официални
документи, за да се избегнат забавяния при обработката:
• Доказателство за банкова информация
Документ, удостоверяващ банковата Ви самоличност: идентификатор на банкова сметка (RIB) или копие от
банково извлечение (с дата през последните шест месеца), в което са посочени името на титуляря на сметката,
номерът на сметката/IBAN, кодът BIC/SWIFT и наименованието на банката. Можете да редактирате друга
чувствителна информация.
• Идентификационни документи
За физически лица — копие от личната Ви карта или паспортa;
За субекти — копие от официален документ с наименованието, регистрацията по ДДС и адреса на
дружеството (напр. удостоверение за учредяване, удостоверение за регистрация на предприятие, извлечение
от търговския регистър, удостоверение за регистрация по ДДС/удостоверение за данъчна регистрация;
Извлечение от правителствен или официален указател).
Регулаторни разпоредби
Член 86 от Регламент (ЕС, Евратом) 2024/2509 на Европейския парламент и на Съвета от 23 септември 2024 г. за
финансовите правила, приложими за общия бюджет на Съюза (преработен текст), съдържа следните разпоредби:
Член 86, параграф 3 — Управление на касовите средства
„Преди да поеме задължение спрямо трето лице, разпоредителят с бюджетни кредити потвърждава самоличността на
получателя на плащането, установява правноорганизационните и платежните данни на получателя на плащането и ги
вписва в общото досие за всяка институция на Съюза, за която счетоводителят отговаря.
Счетоводителят може да извършва плащания само ако правноорганизационните и платежните данни на получателя на
плащането вече са вписани в общо досие от институцията на Съюза, за която той отговаря.
Разпоредителите с бюджетни кредити уведомяват счетоводителя за всяка промяна на правноорганизационните и
платежните данни, които са им съобщени от получателя на плащането, и преди да разрешат плащане, проверяват дали
тези данни са актуални“.CS
NÁVOD PRO VYPLNĚNÍ FORMULÁŘE FINANČNÍ IDENTIFIKACE
Ve formuláři finanční identifikace je třeba uvést základní finanční a právní údaje potřebné pro zpracování plateb a zaregistrování
Vašeho účtu v účetním systému Evropského parlamentu. Tyto pokyny Vám pomohou vyplnit formulář úplně a přesně.
Formulář je v angličtině (překlad názvů políček do všech jazyků EU je uveden na zadní straně), vyplnit jej však můžete
v mateřském jazyce bez použití zvláštních znaků. Při vyplňování používejte pouze latinku. Ujistěte se, že se informace
přesně shodují s údaji uvedenými ve Vašem průkazu totožnosti nebo v registračních dokladech společnosti. Pokud jsou
Vaše jméno nebo adresa původně napsány jinou abecedou než latinkou (cyrilice nebo řecké písmo), použijte
standardizovaná pravidla pro přepis do latinky.
Část 1: Typ právního subjektu a DIČ
Typ právního subjektu
Uveďte druh právního subjektu, který nejlépe vystihuje Vaše právní postavení.
• Právnická osoba – plátce DPH: podnik nebo organizace registrované k výběru a placení daně z přidané hodnoty
(DPH) ze zboží nebo služeb – plátce DPH.
• Právnická osoba, která není plátcem DPH: podnik nebo veřejná organizace, které nejsou registrovány pro účely
DPH, ani nejsou plátci DPH.
• Fyzická osoba: jednotlivec, který působí jako osoba samostatně výdělečně činná.
• Skupina hospodářských subjektů BEZ právní subjektivity: skupina hospodářských subjektů bez právní subjektivity
je řízena jinak než skupina, která je právnickou osobou. Zatímco skupina s právní subjektivitou je považována za
samostatný právní subjekt odlišný od svých členů, skupina bez právní subjektivity musí jmenovat vedoucího, který ji
bude zastupovat ve vztahu k EP. Vedoucího skupiny a všechny nezbytné údaje je třeba zaregistrovat v účetním
systému EP. Před registrací skupiny je nezbytné potvrdit, že vedoucí skupiny je již v systému zaregistrován. V opačném
případě je třeba vyplnit další formulář finanční identifikace a uvést informace o vedoucím skupiny. Pokud se formulář
týká skupiny, která není právnickou osobou, musí být zvolena možnost „Právnická osoba, která není plátcem DPH“
a vyplněna část „Právnická osoba“, která obsahuje informace o skupině.
DIČ
U subjektů registrovaných k výběru DPH vyplňte DIČ v EU (včetně kódu země a čísla), které lze ověřit v systému VIES pro
ověřování DIČ: https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Zvláštní případ – DIČ v případě fyzických osob: Pokud má fyzická osoba DIČ, protože je osobou samostatně výdělečně
činnou, uveďte jej v příslušném poli. Toto pole je nepovinné a může být ponecháno prázdné.
Oddíl 2: Informace o právnické osobě
Uveďte údaje o právnické osobě. Právnická osoba je uznána zákonem a má práva a povinnosti.
• Právní forma: Specifikuje strukturu právnické osoby (společnost s ručením omezeným, partnerství, nezisková
organizace, veřejnoprávní subjekt atd.).
• Název organizace: úřední zaregistrovaný název subjektu, jak je uveden v přiloženém úředním dokumentu.
Oddíl 3: Informace o fyzické osobě (netýká se právnických osob)
Pokud tento formulář vyplňujete jako fyzická osoba, uveďte své osobní údaje:
• jméno
• příjmení
Oddíl 4: Adresa
Uveďte zaregistrovanou adresu subjektu nebo fyzické osoby: ulici, číslo, PSČ, obec, zemi, e-mail (nepovinný údaj): e-mailová
adresa pro účely komunikace.
Oddíl 5: Bankovní údaje
V této části vyplňte údaje o svém bankovním účtu, jak jsou uvedeny v přiloženém potvrzení o bankovním účtu / výpisu z banky:
Uveďte údaje o bance a účtu, které mají být použity pro platební transakce.
• Název banky: úřední název banky nebo finanční instituce.
• Jméno držitele účtu: jméno osoby nebo název subjektu vlastnící(ho) bankovní účet
• IBAN: mezinárodní číslo bankovního účtu, standardizovaný identifikátor účtu používaný pro mezinárodní transakce
• Kód SWIFT (BIC): jedinečný identifikační kód banky používaný pro mezinárodní bezhotovostní převody
• Měna: měna, v níž je účet veden (např. EUR, USD atd.)
• Číslo účtu: Není-li k dispozici číslo IBAN, zaškrtněte „Nemám číslo IBAN“. Tím se aktivuje příslušné pole, kde uvedete
číslo bankovního účtu.
• Jiný identifikátor banky: Zde můžete uvést další bankovní údaje potřebné k registraci bankovních účtů mimo EU,
zejména pokud není k dispozici číslo IBAN.
Poznámka: Pokud se adresa držitele bankovního účtu liší od adresy sídla právního subjektu / osoby uvedené výše, uveďte
adresu držitele bankovního účtu.CS
Oddíl 6: Předložení formuláře a oprávnění
Tento oddíl musí vyplnit zástupce právnické osoby:
• Funkce (pouze u právnických osob): Uveďte pozici nebo funkci, kterou zástupce právnické osoby zastává
(např. vlastník, ředitel, vedoucí prodeje atd.).
• Datum: datum, kdy byl formulář vyplněn a předložen
V posledním kroku potvrďte, že všechny poskytnuté informace jsou přesné a úplné, aby bylo zajištěno, že platby budou
prováděny ve prospěch správného příjemce. Jakmile zaškrtnete toto políčko, vyplněné údaje se uzamknou a nebude
možné provádět další změny.
Oddíl 7: Požadované dokumenty
Aby bylo možné formulář podat, připojte následující dokumenty, které slouží k ověření informací uvedených ve formuláři. Ujistěte
se, že všechny informace ve formuláři odpovídají údajům v úředních dokumentech, aby nedošlo ke zpoždění při zpracování:
• Doklad o bankovních údajích
Doklad potvrzující Vaši bankovní identitu: potvrzení o bankovním účtu nebo kopie výpisu z bankovního účtu
(datovaného během posledních šesti měsíců), v němž je uvedeno jméno držitele účtu, číslo účtu/IBAN, kód BIC/SWIFT
a název banky. Jiné citlivé údaje můžete skrýt.
• Identifikační doklady
V případě fyzických osob: kopie Vašeho průkazu totožnosti nebo cestovního pasu;
v případě právních subjektů: kopie úředního dokumentu s názvem společnosti, DIČ a adresou společnosti
(např. zakladatelská listina, osvědčení o registraci podniku, výpis z obchodního rejstříku, osvědčení o registraci pro
účely DPH/daní; výpis ze státního nebo úředního rejstříku).
Právní předpisy
Článek 86 nařízení Evropského parlamentu a Rady (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 ze dne 23. září 2024, kterým se stanoví finanční
pravidla pro souhrnný rozpočet Unie (přepracované znění), uvádí následující ustanovení:
Čl. 86 odst. 3 – Správa pokladny
„Před přijetím závazku vůči třetí osobě potvrdí schvalující osoba totožnost příjemce platby, zjistí jeho právní postavení a platební
údaje a zaznamená je do společného souboru orgánu Unie, za který účetní odpovídá.
Účetní může uskutečňovat platby pouze v případě, že byly do společného souboru orgánu Unie, za který odpovídá, předem
zapsány právní postavení příjemce platby a jeho platební údaje.
Schvalující osoby informují účetního o všech změnách právního postavení a platebních údajů, jež jim sdělí příjemce platby,
a před schválením platby ověřují platnost těchto údajů.“DA
VEJLEDNING I UDFYLDELSE AF FORMULAREN VEDRØRENDE BANKOPLYSNINGER
Formularen vedrørende bankoplysninger (FIF) indsamler væsentlige finansielle og juridiske oplysninger, der er nødvendige for
betalingsbehandling og oprettelse af din konto i Europa-Parlamentets (EP) regnskabssystem. Følg disse instrukser omhyggeligt
for at sikre, at formularen udfyldes fuldstændigt og korrekt.
Formularen er på engelsk (oversættelser til alle EU-sprog findes på bagsiderne), men udfyld den på dit modersmål uden
specialtegn. Udfyld også denne formular udelukkende med latinske bogstaver, så det sikres, at oplysningerne svarer
nøjagtigt til dem, der fremgår af dit ID-kort eller dine virksomhedsregistreringsdokumenter. Hvis dit navn eller din
adresse oprindeligt er skrevet med et andet alfabet end det latinske, f.eks. kyrillisk eller græsk, bedes du bruge
standardiserede transskriptionsregler til nøjagtigt at konvertere det til latinske bogstaver.
Afsnit 1: Type af juridisk person og momsregistreringsnummer
Type af juridisk person
Angiv den type juridisk eller fysisk person, der bedst beskriver din retlige status.
• Momspligtig juridisk person: Henviser til en virksomhed eller organisation, der er registreret til at opkræve og betale
meromsætningsafgift (moms) på varer eller tjenesteydelser – momspligtig.
• Ikke-momspligtig juridisk person: Henviser til en virksomhed eller offentlig organisation, som ikke er
momsregistreret og ikke er momspligtig.
• Fysisk person: En person, der handler uafhængigt eller opererer som en enkeltmandsvirksomhed.
• Gruppe af økonomiske operatører, der IKKE er en juridisk person: En gruppe af økonomiske aktører, der ikke er
en juridisk person, håndteres anderledes end en gruppe, der er en juridisk person. Mens en gruppe, der er en juridisk
person, behandles som en særskilt juridisk person, der er adskilt fra dens medlemmer, skal en gruppe, der ikke er en
juridisk person, udpege en leder til at repræsentere gruppen i kontakten med EP. Lederen skal være registreret i EP's
regnskabssystem med alle nødvendige oplysninger. Inden gruppen registreres, er det vigtigt at bekræfte, at lederen
allerede findes i systemet. Hvis dette ikke er tilfældet, skal der udfyldes en supplerende formular vedrørende
bankoplysninger (FIF) med lederens oplysninger. Når FIF'en angår gruppen, der ikke er en juridisk person, skal
valgmuligheden "Ikke-momspligtig juridisk person" vælges, og afsnittet om juridiske personer bør udfyldes for at
medtage gruppens oplysninger.
Momsregistreringsnummer
For juridiske personer, der er registreret til at opkræve moms, bedes du angive EU's momsregistreringsnummer inden for
Fællesskabet (herunder landekode og -nummer), som kan verificeres i VIES-systemet til godkendelse af momsnumre via
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Særtilfælde vedrørende momsregistreringsnummer for fysiske personer: Hvis en fysisk person har et
momsregistreringsnummer, fordi vedkommende er freelancer eller en enkeltmandsvirksomhed, angives
momsregistreringsnummeret i momsfeltet. Dette felt er valgfrit og kan indleveres tomt, men det kan anvendes, hvis der er behov
for det.
Afsnit 2: Oplysninger om den juridiske person
Angiv nærmere oplysninger om den juridiske person. Den juridiske person er anerkendt ved lov og indebærer rettigheder og
forpligtelser.
• Juridisk form: Angiver den juridiske persons struktur, f.eks. Aktieselskab, interessentskab eller nonprofitorganisation,
offentligt organ osv.
• Organisationens navn: Den juridiske persons officielt registrerede navn som angivet i vedlagte officielle dokument.
Afsnit 3: Oplysninger om fysiske personer (kun for enkeltpersoner)
Hvis du udfylder denne formular som enkeltperson, bedes du angive dine personoplysninger:
• Fornavn: Dit fornavn.
• Efternavn: Dit efternavn.
Afsnit 4: Adresse
Indtast den juridiske persons eller enkeltpersonens registrerede adresse: Gade, husnummer, postnummer, by, land. E-mail
(valgfrit): E-mailadressen er udelukkende til kommunikationsformål. Det er ikke obligatorisk at angive e-mailadresse.
Afsnit 5: Bankoplysninger
Udfyld dette afsnit med dine bankkontooplysninger som angivet i vedlagte bankidentifikationsnummer/kontoudtog: Angiv
oplysninger om den bank og konto, der skal anvendes til betalingstransaktioner.
• Bankens navn: Bankens eller finansieringsinstituttets officielle navn.
• Kontoindehaverens navn: Navnet på den fysiske eller juridiske person, der er indehaver af bankkontoen.
• IBAN-nummer: Internationalt bankkontonummer, en standardiseret kontoidentifikator, der anvendes til internationale
transaktioner.
• SWIFT-kode (BIC): En unik bankidentifikationskode, der anvendes til internationale elektroniske overførsler.
• Valuta: Den valuta, som kontoen føres i (f.eks. EUR, USD osv.).
• Kontonummer: Hvis der ikke findes et IBAN-nummer, skal du krydse af i feltet "Jeg har ikke et IBAN-nummer" for at
aktivere dette felt og angive bankkontonummer.DA
• Anden bankidentifikator: Dette felt giver mulighed for at medtage yderligere bankoplysninger, der er nødvendige for
at registrere bankkonti uden for EU, navnlig når et IBAN-nummer ikke er tilgængeligt.
Bemærk: Hvis bankkontoindehaverens adresse er en anden, end adressen på den fysiske eller juridiske person, der er angivet
ovenfor, angives bankkontoindehaverens adresse.
Afsnit 6: Indgivelse og godkendelse af formularen
Repræsentanten for den juridiske person skal udfylde dette afsnit:
• Rolle (kun for juridiske personer): Angiver den juridiske persons repræsentants stilling eller funktion (f.eks. ejer,
direktør, salgsleder osv.).
• Dato: Dato for udfyldelse og indsendelse af formularen.
Som et sidste skridt bedes du bekræfte, at alle de fremlagte oplysninger er nøjagtige og fuldstændige for at sikre, at
betalingerne foretages til den korrekte modtager. Når dette felt er godkendt, låses oplysningerne for at forhindre
yderligere ændringer.
Afsnit 7: Nødvendige dokumenter
Vedlæg venligst følgende dokumenter til bekræftelse af oplysningerne i formularen, så du kan indsende den. Sørg for, at alle
oplysninger i formularen svarer til oplysningerne i dine officielle dokumenter for at undgå forsinkelser i behandlingen:
• Dokumentation for bankoplysninger
Et dokument, der bekræfter din bankidentitet: Bankidentifikationsnummer eller en kopi af et kontoudtog (dateret inden
for de seneste seks måneder), der viser kontoindehaverens navn, kontonummer/IBAN, BIC/SWIFT-kode og banknavn.
Du må sløre andre følsomme oplysninger.
• Identifikationsdokumenter
For fysiske personer, en kopi af dit ID-kort eller pas
For juridiske personer, en kopi af et officielt dokument med virksomhedens navn, moms og adresse (f.eks.
stiftelsesattest, virksomhedsregistreringsattest, udskrift fra handelsregistret, moms-/skatteregistreringsattest; Uddrag
af et myndighedsregister eller et officielt register).
Retsforskrifter
Artikel 86 i Europa-Parlamentets og Rådets forordning (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 af 23. september 2024 om de finansielle
regler vedrørende Unionens almindelige budget (finansforordningen), fastsætter følgende:
Artikel 86, stk. 3 – Likviditetsstyring
"Inden der indgås forpligtelser over for tredjepart, bekræfter den anvisningsberettigede betalingsmodtagerens identitet, fastslår
betalingsmodtagerens juridiske enhed og betalingsoplysninger og opfører dem i det fælles register efter den EU-institution, som
regnskabsføreren er ansvarlig for.
Regnskabsføreren kan kun foretage betalinger, hvis betalingsmodtagerens juridiske enhed og betalingsoplysninger først er opført
i et fælles register efter den EU-institution, som regnskabsføreren er ansvarlig for.
De anvisningsberettigede underretter regnskabsføreren om eventuelle ændringer af den juridiske enhed og betalingsoplysninger,
som betalingsmodtageren har meddelt dem, og kontrollerer, at disse oplysninger er gyldige, inden de godkender en betaling."DE
LEITFADEN ZUM AUSFÜLLEN DES FORMULARS „FINANZANGABEN“
Mit dem Formular „Finanzangaben“ werden die wesentlichen finanziellen und rechtlichen Einzelheiten erfasst, die für die
Abwicklung von Zahlungen und die Einrichtung Ihres Kontos im Rechnungsführungssystem des Europäischen Parlaments (EP)
erforderlich sind. Befolgen Sie diese Anweisungen sorgfältig, und vergewissern Sie sich, dass Sie es vollständig und korrekt
ausfüllen und einreichen.
Das Formular ist in englischer Sprache abgefasst (Übersetzungen in alle EU-Sprachen auf der Rückseite). Füllen Sie es
in der Originalsprache, aber ohne diakritische Zeichen und ohne Sonderzeichen und ausschließlich mit lateinischen
Buchstaben aus. Vergewissern Sie sich, dass die Angaben exakt mit jenen in Ihrem Ausweisdokument oder Ihren
Unterlagen über die Eintragung des Unternehmens übereinstimmen. Wenn Ihr Name oder Ihre Anschrift in Ihrer Sprache
in einem nichtlateinischen Alphabet – etwa einem kyrillischen oder dem griechischen Alphabet – geschrieben ist,
müssen Sie ihn nach einem normierten Verfahren korrekt in lateinische Buchstaben transkribieren.
Abschnitt 1: Art des Rechtsträgers und Umsatzsteuer-Identifikationsnummer
Art des Rechtsträgers
Geben Sie Ihren rechtlichen Status an.
• Umsatzsteuerpflichtiger Rechtsträger Ein Unternehmen oder eine Einrichtung, das bzw. die für die Erhebung und
Entrichtung der Umsatzsteuer (USt.) auf Güter oder Dienstleistungen registriert und damit umsatzsteuerpflichtig ist.
• Nicht umsatzsteuerpflichtiger Rechtsträger Ein Unternehmen oder eine Einrichtung, das bzw. die nicht für die
Erhebung und Entrichtung der Umsatzsteuer (USt.) auf Güter oder Dienstleistungen registriert und damit nicht
umsatzsteuerpflichtig ist.
• Natürliche Person: Eine Einzelperson, die selbstständig oder als Einzelunternehmer tätig ist.
• Gruppe von Wirtschaftsteilnehmern ohne Rechtspersönlichkeit: Eine Gruppe von Wirtschaftsteilnehmern ohne
Rechtspersönlichkeit wird anders verwaltet als eine mit Rechtspersönlichkeit. Während eine Gruppe mit
Rechtspersönlichkeit als eigenständige juristische Person behandelt wird, die von ihren Mitgliedern zu unterscheiden
ist, muss eine Gruppe ohne Rechtspersönlichkeit ein federführendes Mitglied benennen, das sie in der Interaktion mit
dem EP vertritt. Das federführende Mitglied muss mit allen erforderlichen Angaben im Rechnungsführungssystem des
EP registriert sein. Vor der Registrierung der Gruppe muss unbedingt bestätigt werden, dass das federführende
Mitglied bereits im System vorhanden ist. Andernfalls ist ein zusätzliches Formular „Finanzangaben“ mit den Angaben
des federführenden Mitglieds auszufüllen. Wird das Formular „Finanzangaben“ für eine Gruppe ohne
Rechtspersönlichkeit ausgefüllt, so ist die Option „Nicht umsatzsteuerpflichtiger Rechtsträger“ auszuwählen und sind
im Abschnitt „Rechtsträger“ Angaben zu der Gruppe zu machen.
USt.-Nr.
Bei Unternehmen und Einrichtungen, die für die Erhebung der Umsatzsteuer registriert sind, ist die innergemeinschaftliche
Umsatzsteuer-Identifikationsnummer (zusammengesetzt aus dem Ländercode und der Nummer) anzugeben, die unter
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation im MIAS-System für die Validierung der MwSt.-Nummern überprüft
werden kann.
Sonderfall USt.-IdNr. für natürliche Personen: Hat eine natürliche Person eine USt.-Nr., weil sie freiberuflich oder als
Einzelunternehmer tätig ist, so ist diese Nummer im Feld „USt.-Nummer“ anzugeben. Dieses Feld ist optional und muss nur in
diesem Sonderfall ausgefüllt werden.
Abschnitt 2: Angaben zum Rechtsträger
Hier sind nähere Angaben zum Rechtsträger zu machen. Der Rechtsträger ist mit Rechten und Pflichten gesetzlich anerkannt.
• Rechtsform: Angaben zur Struktur des Rechtsträgers, z. B. Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung,
Personengesellschaft, gemeinnützige Organisation, öffentliche Einrichtung usw.
• Name der Organisation: Der amtlich eingetragene Name des Unternehmens bzw. der Einrichtung gemäß dem
beigefügten amtlichen Dokument.
Abschnitt 3: Angaben zur natürlichen Person (nur für Einzelpersonen)
Wenn Sie dieses Formular als Einzelperson ausfüllen, sind hier Ihre persönlichen Daten anzugeben:
• Vorname: Ihr Vorname.
• Nachname: Ihr Nachname.
Abschnitt 4: Anschrift
Die vollständige amtliche Anschrift des Unternehmens bzw. der Einrichtung oder der natürlichen Person muss folgende Angaben
enthalten: Straße, Hausnummer, Postleitzahl, Ort, Land.
E-Mail (Angabe nicht zwingend): Die E-Mail-Adresse für Kommunikationszwecke. Dieses Feld ist kein Pflichtfeld.DE
Abschnitt 5: Angaben zur Bank
Füllen Sie diesen Abschnitt mit Ihren Kontodaten aus, die in dem beigefügten Bankidentitätsauszug bzw. Kontoauszug aufgeführt
sind. Machen Sie nähere Angaben zu der Bank und dem für Zahlungsvorgänge zu verwendenden Konto.
• Name der Bank: Der amtliche Name der Bank oder des Finanzinstituts.
• Name des Kontoinhabers: Der Name der Person oder Stelle, die Inhaber des Bankkontos ist.
• IBAN: Die internationale Kontonummer, eine standardisierte Kontokennung für internationale Transaktionen.
• SWIFT-Code (BIC): Ein eindeutiger Bankidentifikationscode für internationale elektronische Überweisungen.
• Währung: Die Währung, auf die das Konto lautet (z. B. EUR, USD usw.).
• Kontonummer: Wenn keine IBAN vorhanden ist, aktivieren Sie das Kontrollkästchen „Ich habe keine IBAN“, um dieses
Feld zu aktivieren und die Kontonummer anzugeben.
• Sonstige Bankkennung: In diesem Feld können zusätzliche Angaben zur Bank gemacht werden, die für die
Registrierung von Bankkonten außerhalb der EU erforderlich sind, insbesondere wenn keine IBAN verfügbar ist.
Hinweis: Unterscheidet sich die Anschrift des Kontoinhabers von der vorstehend angegebenen Hauptanschrift der juristischen
oder natürlichen Person, so ist die Anschrift des Kontoinhabers anzugeben.
Abschnitt 6: Einreichung und Genehmigung des Formulars
Der Vertreter des Rechtsträgers muss diesen Abschnitt ausfüllen:
• Funktion (nur bei Rechtsträgern): Hier ist die Position oder Funktion des Vertreters des Rechtsträgers (z. B.
Eigentümer, Geschäftsführer, Verkaufsleiter usw.) anzugeben.
• Datum: Das Datum, an dem das Formular ausgefüllt und übermittelt wurde.
Bestätigen Sie zum Abschluss des Vorgangs, dass alle bereitgestellten Informationen korrekt und vollständig sind,
damit der richtige Begünstigte die Zahlungen erhält. Sobald dieses Kontrollkästchen aktiviert ist, werden die Eingaben
gesperrt und können nicht mehr geändert werden.
Abschnitt 7: Erforderliche Unterlagen
Hier sind die folgenden Unterlagen beizufügen, damit die im Formular gemachten Angaben überprüft werden können und der
Vorgang abgeschlossen werden kann. Vergewissern Sie sich, dass alle im Formular gemachten Angaben mit den Angaben in
Ihren amtlichen Dokumenten übereinstimmen, damit es nicht zu Verzögerungen bei der Verarbeitung kommt:
• Nachweis zu den Angaben zur Bank
Ein Dokument zur Bescheinigung Ihrer Bankidentität, d. h. ein Bankidentitätsauszug oder eine Kopie eines
Kontoauszugs (mit Datum aus den vergangenen sechs Monaten), aus dem der Name des Kontoinhabers, die
Kontonummer/IBAN, der BIC/SWIFT-Code und der Name der Bank hervorgehen. Andere sensible Informationen
dürfen Sie unkenntlich machen.
• Identifizierungsdokumente
Bei natürlichen Personen eine Kopie Ihres Personalausweises oder Reisepasses.
Bei Rechtsträgern eine Kopie eines amtlichen Dokuments mit Name, Umsatzsteuernummer und Anschrift des
Unternehmens (z. B. Gründungsurkunde, Handelsregisterbescheinigung, Auszug aus dem Handelsregister,
Umsatzsteuer-/Steuerregistrierungsbescheinigung, Auszug aus einem staatlichen Register oder einem amtlichen
Verzeichnis).
Vorschriften
Artikel 86 der Verordnung (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 des Europäischen Parlaments und des Rates vom 23. September 2024
über die Haushaltsordnung für den Gesamthaushaltsplan der Union (Neufassung) enthält folgende Vorschriften
Artikel 86 Absatz 3 – Kassenführung
Bevor der Anweisungsbefugte eine Verpflichtung gegenüber Dritten eingeht, bestätigt er die Identität des Zahlungsempfängers,
stellt die Rechtsträgerangaben und Zahlungsinformationen des Zahlungsempfängers fest und erfasst sie in der gemeinsamen
Datei des jeweiligen Unionsorgans, für die der Rechnungsführer zuständig ist.
Der Rechnungsführer kann Zahlungen nur dann veranlassen, wenn die Angaben zum Rechtsträger und die
Zahlungsinformationen des Zahlungsempfängers zuvor in einer gemeinsamen Datei des jeweiligen Unionsorgans, für das der
Rechnungsführer zuständig ist, erfasst worden sind.
Die Anweisungsbefugten informieren den Rechnungsführer über jede Änderung der ihnen von den Empfängern mitgeteilten
Rechtsträgerangaben und Zahlungsinformationen und prüfen, ob diese Angaben gültig sind, bevor sie eine Zahlung anordnen.EL
ΟΔΗΓΟΣ ΓΙΑ ΤΗ ΣΥΜΠΛΗΡΩΣΗ ΤΟΥ ΕΝΤΥΠΟΥ ΟΙΚΟΝΟΜΙΚΩΝ ΣΤΟΙΧΕΙΩΝ
Το έντυπο οικονομικών στοιχείων περιλαμβάνει τα βασικά οικονομικά και νομικά στοιχεία που απαιτούνται για την επεξεργασία
των πληρωμών και τη δημιουργία του λογαριασμού σας στο λογιστικό σύστημα του Ευρωπαϊκού Κοινοβουλίου (ΕΚ).
Ακολουθήστε με προσοχή τις οδηγίες αυτές, για να είστε σίγουροι ότι θα υποβάλετε ένα έντυπο με πλήρη και ακριβή στοιχεία.
Το έντυπο διατίθεται στην αγγλική γλώσσα (με μεταφράσεις σε όλες τις γλώσσες της ΕΕ στο οπισθόφυλλο).
Συμπληρώνεται στο λατινικό αλφάβητο, χωρίς ειδικούς χαρακτήρες. Τα στοιχεία πρέπει να αντιστοιχούν ακριβώς σε
αυτά που αναγράφονται στην ταυτότητα ή στα έγγραφα καταχώρισης της εταιρείας σας. Εάν το όνομα ή η διεύθυνσή
σας γράφεται κανονικά σε άλλο αλφάβητο εκτός του λατινικού, όπως το κυριλλικό ή το ελληνικό, χρησιμοποιήστε
τυποποιημένους κανόνες μεταγραφής για να μετατρέψετε με ακρίβεια τους χαρακτήρες σε λατινικούς.
Πρώτη ενότητα: Τύπος νομικού προσώπου και αριθμός ΦΠΑ
Legal Entity Type (Τύπος νομικού προσώπου)
Αναφέρετε το είδος οντότητας που περιγράφει καλύτερα το νομικό σας καθεστώς.
• Legal Entity With VAT (Νομικό πρόσωπο με ΦΠΑ): Αναφέρεται σε επιχείρηση ή οργανισμό που είναι
εγγεγραμμένος στα μητρώα για την είσπραξη και την καταβολή φόρου προστιθέμενης αξίας (ΦΠΑ) επί αγαθών ή
υπηρεσιών (υπόχρεος ΦΠΑ).
• Legal Entity Without VAT (Νομικό πρόσωπο χωρίς ΦΠΑ): Αναφέρεται σε επιχείρηση ή δημόσιο οργανισμό που
δεν είναι εγγεγραμμένος στα μητρώα ΦΠΑ και δεν είναι υπόχρεος ΦΠΑ.
• Natural Person (Φυσικό πρόσωπο): Ιδιώτης που δραστηριοποιείται ως ελεύθερος επαγγελματίας ή ατομική
επιχείρηση.
• Group of Economic Operators WITHOUT Legal Entity (Όμιλος οικονομικών παραγόντων ΧΩΡΙΣ νομική
προσωπικότητα): Η διαχείριση ομίλου οικονομικών παραγόντων χωρίς νομική προσωπικότητα διαφέρει από αυτή
του ομίλου με νομική προσωπικότητα. Ενώ ένας όμιλος με νομική προσωπικότητα αντιμετωπίζεται ως χωριστό νομικό
πρόσωπο, διακριτό από τα μέλη του, ένας όμιλος χωρίς νομική προσωπικότητα πρέπει να διορίσει έναν επικεφαλής
που θα τον εκπροσωπεί στις επαφές του με το ΕΚ. Ο επικεφαλής πρέπει να είναι εγγεγραμμένος στο λογιστικό σύστημα
του ΕΚ με όλα τα απαραίτητα στοιχεία. Πριν καταχωριστεί ο όμιλος, είναι σημαντικό να επιβεβαιωθεί ότι ο επικεφαλής
υπάρχει ήδη στο σύστημα. Σε αντίθετη περίπτωση, πρέπει να συμπληρωθεί συμπληρωματικό έντυπο οικονομικών
στοιχείων με τα στοιχεία του επικεφαλής. Όταν το έντυπο οικονομικών στοιχείων αφορά τον όμιλο χωρίς νομική
προσωπικότητα, πρέπει να επιλεγεί η επιλογή «Legal Entity without VAT» (Νομικό πρόσωπο χωρίς ΦΠΑ) και να
συμπληρωθεί το τμήμα «Legal Entity» (Νομικό πρόσωπο) με τα στοιχεία του ομίλου.
VAT-Number (Αριθμός ΦΠΑ)
Για τις οντότητες που είναι εγγεγραμμένες στα μητρώα ΦΠΑ, αναγράψτε τον ενδοκοινοτικό αριθμό ΦΠΑ (κωδικός χώρας και
αριθμός), ο οποίος μπορεί να επαληθευτεί στο σύστημα επαλήθευσης αριθ. ΦΠΑ του VIES μέσω του συνδέσμου
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Special Case of VAT Number for Natural Persons (Ειδική περίπτωση ΦΠΑ ιδιωτών): Εάν ένα φυσικό πρόσωπο διαθέτει
αριθμό ΦΠΑ επειδή είναι ελεύθερος επαγγελματίας ή ατομική επιχείρηση, αναγράψτε τον αριθμό ΦΠΑ στο αντίστοιχο πεδίο. Το
πεδίο αυτό είναι προαιρετικό και μπορεί να μείνει κενό, αλλά διατίθεται για περίπτωση ανάγκης.
Δεύτερη ενότητα: Στοιχεία νομικού προσώπου
Συμπληρώστε τα στοιχεία του νομικού προσώπου. Η νομική προσωπικότητα αναγνωρίζεται από τον νόμο και συνεπάγεται
δικαιώματα και υποχρεώσεις.
• Legal Form (Νομική μορφή): Προσδιορίζει τη δομή του νομικού προσώπου, για παράδειγμα εταιρεία περιορισμένης
ευθύνης, ομόρρυθμη εταιρεία, μη κερδοσκοπικός οργανισμός, δημόσιος φορέας κ.λπ.
• Organization Name (Όνομα οργανισμού): Η επίσημη, καταχωρισμένη επωνυμία της οντότητας, όπως ορίζεται στο
συνημμένο επίσημο έγγραφο.
Τρίτη ενότητα: Στοιχεία φυσικού προσώπου (μόνο για ιδιώτες)
Εάν συμπληρώνετε το παρόν έντυπο ως ιδιώτης, αναφέρετε τα προσωπικά σας στοιχεία:
• Όνομα: Το όνομά σας.
• Επώνυμο: Το επώνυμό σας.
Τέταρτη ενότητα: Address (Διεύθυνση)
Αναγράψτε τα στοιχεία της καταχωρισμένης διεύθυνσης της οντότητας ή του ιδιώτη: οδός, αριθμός κατοικίας, ταχυδρομικός
κώδικας, πόλη, χώρα. Email (Διεύθυνση ηλεκτρονικού ταχυδρομείου, προαιρετικά): Η διεύθυνση ηλεκτρονικού
ταχυδρομείου για σκοπούς επικοινωνίας. Η διεύθυνση ηλεκτρονικού ταχυδρομείου δεν είναι υποχρεωτικό πεδίο.
Πέμπτη ενότητα: Τραπεζικά στοιχεία
Συμπληρώστε αυτή την ενότητα με τα στοιχεία του τραπεζικού σας λογαριασμού, όπως αναγράφονται στο συνημμένο έντυπο
τραπεζικών στοιχείων/αντίγραφο κίνησης τραπεζικού λογαριασμού: Δώστε λεπτομερή στοιχεία σχετικά με την τράπεζα και τον
λογαριασμό που θα χρησιμοποιηθεί για τις πράξεις πληρωμής.
• Bank Name (Επωνυμία τράπεζας): η επίσημη ονομασία της τράπεζας ή του χρηματοπιστωτικού ιδρύματος.
• Account Holder Name (Όνομα κατόχου λογαριασμού): το όνομα του προσώπου ή της οντότητας που κατέχει τον
τραπεζικό λογαριασμό.
• IBAN: Διεθνής αριθμός τραπεζικού λογαριασμού – τυποποιημένο αναγνωριστικό λογαριασμού που χρησιμοποιείται
για διεθνείς συναλλαγές.EL
• SWIFT Code (BIC) [Κωδικός SWIFT (BIC)]: Μοναδικός κωδικός αναγνώρισης τράπεζας που χρησιμοποιείται για
διεθνείς ηλεκτρονικές μεταφορές χρηματικών ποσών.
• Currency (Νόμισμα): Το νόμισμα του λογαριασμού (π.χ. EUR, USD κ.λπ.).
• Account Number (Αριθμός λογαριασμού): εάν δεν υπάρχει IBAN, επιλέξτε την επιλογή «I do not have an IBAN
number» (Δεν έχω αριθμό IBAN), για να ενεργοποιήσετε αυτό το πεδίο και να καταχωρίσετε τον αριθμό τραπεζικού
λογαριασμού.
• Other Bank Identifier (Άλλο αναγνωριστικό στοιχείο τράπεζας): στο πεδίο αυτό μπορείτε να συμπεριλάβετε
πρόσθετα τραπεζικά στοιχεία που απαιτούνται για την καταχώριση τραπεζικών λογαριασμών εκτός ΕΕ, ιδίως όταν δεν
διατίθεται αριθμός IBAN.
Σημείωση: Εάν η διεύθυνση του κατόχου τραπεζικού λογαριασμού διαφέρει από την κύρια διεύθυνση του νομικού
προσώπου/του ιδιώτη που αναφέρεται ανωτέρω, προσδιορίστε τη διεύθυνση του κατόχου του τραπεζικού λογαριασμού.
Έκτη ενότητα: Υποβολή εντύπου και έγκριση
Η ενότητα αυτή συμπληρώνεται από τον εκπρόσωπο του νομικού προσώπου:
• Role (Ρόλος – μόνο για νομικά πρόσωπα): Προσδιορίζει τη θέση ή τα καθήκοντα του εκπροσώπου του νομικού
προσώπου (π.χ. ιδιοκτήτης, διευθυντής, διευθυντής πωλήσεων κ.λπ.).
• Date (Ημερομηνία): ημερομηνία συμπλήρωσης και υποβολής του εντύπου.
Ως τελικό βήμα, επιβεβαιώστε ότι όλες οι παρεχόμενες πληροφορίες είναι ακριβείς και πλήρεις, ώστε να διασφαλιστεί
ότι οι πληρωμές θα καταβάλλονται στον σωστό δικαιούχο. Μόλις επιλεγεί το πεδίο αυτό, τα δεδομένα κλειδώνουν και
δεν μπορούν πλέον να τροποποιηθούν.
Έβδομη ενότητα: Απαιτούμενα έγγραφα
Επισυνάψτε τα ακόλουθα έγγραφα για να επαληθεύσετε τις πληροφορίες που παρέχονται στο έντυπο και να ολοκληρώσετε την
υποβολή στοιχείων. Βεβαιωθείτε ότι όλες οι πληροφορίες στο έντυπο αντιστοιχούν στα στοιχεία των επίσημων εγγράφων σας,
ώστε να αποφευχθούν καθυστερήσεις στη διεκπεραίωση:
• Απόδειξη τραπεζικών στοιχείων
Έγγραφο που πιστοποιεί την τραπεζική σας ταυτότητα: Έντυπο τραπεζικών στοιχείων ή αντίγραφο κίνησης τραπεζικού
λογαριασμού (με ημερομηνία εντός των τελευταίων έξι μηνών) που αναφέρει το όνομα του κατόχου του λογαριασμού,
τον αριθμό λογαριασμού/IBAN, τον κωδικό BIC/SWIFT και την επωνυμία της τράπεζας. Μπορείτε να απαλείψετε άλλες
ευαίσθητες πληροφορίες.
• Έγγραφα ταυτοποίησης
Για τα φυσικά πρόσωπα, αντίγραφο του δελτίου ταυτότητας ή του διαβατηρίου σας·
Για οντότητες, αντίγραφο επίσημου εγγράφου με την επωνυμία, τον αριθμό ΦΠΑ και τη διεύθυνση της εταιρείας (π.χ.
πιστοποιητικό σύστασης εταιρείας, πιστοποιητικό καταχώρισης επιχείρησης, απόσπασμα εμπορικού μητρώου,
πιστοποιητικό ΦΠΑ/εγγραφής στο φορολογικό μητρώο, απόσπασμα κρατικού ή επίσημου μητρώου).
Κανονιστικές διατάξεις
Το άρθρο 86 του κανονισμού (ΕΕ, Ευρατόμ) 2024/2509 του Ευρωπαϊκού Κοινοβουλίου και του Συμβουλίου, της
23ης Σεπτεμβρίου 2024, σχετικά με τους δημοσιονομικούς κανόνες που εφαρμόζονται στον γενικό προϋπολογισμό της Ένωσης
(αναδιατύπωση) περιλαμβάνει τις ακόλουθες διατάξεις:
Άρθρο 86 παράγραφος 3 – Διαχείριση ταμειακών διαθεσίμων
«Προτού αναλάβει δέσμευση έναντι τρίτου, ο διατάκτης επιβεβαιώνει την ταυτότητα του δικαιούχου, εξακριβώνει τα στοιχεία
νομικής οντότητας και πληρωμής του δικαιούχου και τα εγγράφει σε κοινό αρχείο ανά θεσμικό όργανο της Ένωσης για το οποίο
είναι υπεύθυνος/η.
Ο υπόλογος είναι δυνατόν να πραγματοποιεί πληρωμές μόνον εφόσον τα στοιχεία νομικής οντότητας και πληρωμής του
δικαιούχου έχουν προηγουμένως εγγραφεί σε κοινό αρχείο ανά θεσμικό όργανο της Ένωσης για το οποίο είναι υπεύθυνος ο
υπόλογος.
Οι διατάκτες ενημερώνουν τον υπόλογο για κάθε μεταβολή στα στοιχεία νομικής οντότητας και πληρωμής η οποία τους
γνωστοποιείται από τον δικαιούχο και επαληθεύουν ότι τα εν λόγω στοιχεία είναι έγκυρα πριν από την έγκριση της πληρωμής.»ES
GUÍA PARA CUMPLIMENTAR EL FORMULARIO DE IDENTIFICACIÓN FINANCIERA
El formulario de identificación financiera (FIF) recoge los datos financieros y jurídicos esenciales necesarios para el
procesamiento de los pagos y la creación de su cuenta en el sistema contable del Parlamento Europeo. Siga atentamente estas
instrucciones para asegurarse que cumplimenta de manera completa y precisa el formulario.
El formulario está en inglés (las traducciones a todas las lenguas de la Unión figuran en las páginas posteriores), pero
puede cumplimentarlo en la lengua original sin caracteres especiales. Le pedimos también que rellene este formulario
utilizando solo caracteres latinos, asegurándose de que la información coincide exactamente con la que figura en sus
documentos de identidad o de registro de la empresa. Si su nombre o dirección está escrito originalmente en un alfabeto
no latino, como el cirílico o el griego, le rogamos que utilice las reglas normalizadas de transliteración a caracteres
latinos.
Sección 1: Tipo de entidad jurídica y número de IVA
Tipo de entidad jurídica
Indique el tipo de entidad que mejor describe su estatuto jurídico.
• Entidad jurídica con IVA: empresa o sociedad registrada para recaudar y pagar el impuesto sobre el valor añadido
(IVA) por bienes o servicios - sujeto pasivo del IVA.
• Entidad jurídica sin IVA: empresa u organismo público que no está registrado a efectos del IVA y no es sujeto pasivo
del IVA.
• Individuo: persona física que opera de forma independiente o como empresario individual.
• Agrupación de operadores económicos SIN entidad jurídica: una agrupación de operadores económicos sin
entidad jurídica se gestiona de forma diferente a una agrupación que sí tiene una entidad jurídica. Si bien una
agrupación con entidad jurídica es tratada como una entidad jurídica distinta de sus miembros, una agrupación sin
entidad jurídica debe designar a un responsable para que lo represente en las interacciones con el Parlamento. El
responsable debe estar registrado en el sistema contable del Parlamento con todos los datos necesarios. Antes de
registrar a la agrupación, es esencial confirmar que el responsable ya figura en el sistema. En caso contrario, deberá
cumplimentarse un formulario de identificación financiera (FIF) adicional con los datos del responsable. Cuando el FIF
sea para la agrupación sin entidad jurídica, deberá seleccionarse la opción «Entidad jurídica sin IVA» y cumplimentarse
la sección «Entidad jurídica» para incluir la información de la agrupación.
Número de IVA
En el caso de las entidades registradas para recaudar el IVA, indique el número de IVA intracomunitario de la UE (incluidos
el código de país y el número), que puede consultarse en el sistema de validación del número de IVA en VIES a través de
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Caso especial de número de IVA para personas físicas: Si una persona física tiene un número de IVA porque es un trabajador
autónomo o un empresario individual, debe indicar el número de IVA en el campo de IVA disponible. Este campo es opcional y
puede dejarse vacío, pero está disponible por si es necesario.
Sección 2: Información de la entidad jurídica
Facilite información sobre la entidad jurídica. La ley reconoce a las entidades jurídicas con derechos y obligaciones.
• Forma jurídica: especifique el tipo de entidad jurídica, como sociedad de responsabilidad limitada, sociedad colectiva,
organización sin ánimo de lucro, organismo público, etc.
• Nombre de la organización: denominación oficial registrada de la entidad, tal como se especifica en el documento
oficial adjunto.
Sección 3: Información del individuo (solo para personas físicas)
Si cumplimenta este formulario como persona física, facilite sus datos personales:
• Nombre: su nombre.
• Apellido: su(s) apellidos(s).
Sección 4: Dirección
Introduzca información detallada sobre la dirección registrada de la entidad o la persona física: calle, número, código postal,
ciudad, país. Correo electrónico (opcional): la dirección de correo electrónico se utiliza a efectos de comunicación. El campo
del correo electrónico no es obligatorio.
Sección 5: Información bancaria
Cumplimente esta sección con los datos de su cuenta bancaria, tal como se especifica en el certificado de identificación bancaria
oel extracto bancario que adjunte. Facilite datos sobre el banco y la cuenta que deben utilizarse para las operaciones de pago.
• Nombre del banco: nombre oficial del banco o de la entidad financiera.
• Nombre del titular de la cuenta: nombre de la persona física o la entidad titular de la cuenta bancaria.
• IBAN: número internacional de cuenta bancaria, un identificador normalizado de cuenta utilizado para las
transacciones internacionales.
• Código SWIFT (BIC): código de identificación bancaria único utilizado para las transferencias electrónicas
internacionales.
• Moneda: moneda en la que está la cuenta (por ejemplo, EUR, USD, etc.).
• Número de cuenta: si no dispone de IBAN, seleccione «No tengo número IBAN» para habilitar este campo e indicar
el número de cuenta bancaria.ES
• Otro identificador bancario: este campo permite incluir los datos bancarios adicionales necesarios para registrar
cuentas bancarias de fuera de la Unión, en particular cuando no se dispone de un IBAN.
Nota: Si la dirección del titular de la cuenta bancaria difiere de la dirección principal de la persona física o la entidad jurídica
indicada anteriormente, especifique la dirección del titular de la cuenta bancaria.
Sección 6: Presentación del formulario y autorización
El representante de la entidad jurídica deberá cumplimentar esta sección:
• Puesto dentro de la entidad jurídica (solo para las entidades jurídicas): especifique el puesto o la función del
representante de la entidad jurídica (por ejemplo, propietario, director, gestor de ventas, etc.).
• Fecha: fecha de cumplimentación y presentación del formulario.
Como último paso, le rogamos que compruebe que toda la información facilitada es exacta y completa para garantizar
que los pagos se realizan al beneficiario correcto. Una vez validado, este campo bloquea los datos para evitar nuevos
cambios.
Sección 7: Documentos requeridos
Adjunte los siguientes documentos para verificar la información facilitada en el formulario y completar su presentación del
formulario. Asegúrese de que toda la información del formulario coincide con los datos de sus documentos oficiales para evitar
retrasos en la tramitación:
• Prueba de información bancaria
Un documento que certifique su identidad bancaria: certificado de identificación bancaria o copia de un extracto
bancario (fechado en los últimos seis meses) en el que figure el nombre del titular de la cuenta, el número de
cuenta/IBAN, el código BIC/SWIFT y el nombre del banco. Puede censurar otros datos delicados.
• Documentos de identificación
En el caso de las personas físicas, una copia de su documento de identidad o pasaporte.
En el caso de las entidades, una copia de un documento oficial en el que figure el nombre, el número de IVA y la
dirección de la empresa (por ejemplo, escritura de constitución, certificado de inscripción en el registro mercantil,
extracto del registro mercantil, certificado de registro fiscal/IVA o extracto de un directorio gubernamental u oficial).
Disposiciones normativas
En el artículo 86 del Reglamento (UE, Euratom) 2024/2509 del Parlamento Europeo y del Consejo, de 23 de septiembre
de 2024, sobre las normas financieras aplicables al presupuesto general de la Unión (versión refundida) se establece lo siguiente:
Artículo 86 (Gestión de la tesorería), apartado 3
«Antes de asumir un compromiso con un tercero, el ordenador deberá confirmar la identidad del beneficiario del pago, establecer
los datos de la entidad jurídica y las referencias de pago del beneficiario y consignarlos en el fichero común por institución de la
Unión que esté bajo la responsabilidad del contable.
El contable solo podrá realizar pagos si los datos de la entidad jurídica y las referencias de pago del beneficiario se han
consignado previamente en el fichero común por institución de la Unión que esté bajo su responsabilidad.
Los ordenadores informarán al contable de cualquier cambio en los datos de la entidad jurídica y de pago que les haya
comunicado el beneficiario y comprobarán que dichos datos siguen siendo correctos antes de autorizar ningún pago.».ET
FINANTSTEABE VORMI TÄITMISE JUHEND
Finantsteabe vormiga kogutakse olulisi finants- ja juriidilisi andmeid, mis on vajalikud selleks, et töödelda makseid ja luua teie
konto Euroopa Parlamendi (EP) raamatupidamissüsteemis. Järgige neid juhiseid hoolikalt, et tagada vormi täielik ja täpne
esitamine.
Vorm on inglise keeles (tagalehekülgedel on tõlked kõikidesse ELi keeltesse), kuid see tuleb täita originaalkeeles. Ärge
kasutage erimärke. Täitke vorm ainult ladina tähestikus ja tagage, et teave vastab täpselt teie isikut tõendaval
dokumendil või ettevõtte registreerimisdokumentides esitatud teabele. Kui teie nimi või aadress on algselt kirjutatud
muus kui ladina tähestikus, näiteks kirillitsas või Kreeka tähestikus, transkribeerige see ladina tähestikku
standardreeglite järgi.
1.osa. Õigussubjekti liik ja KMKR number
Õigussubjekti liik
Märkige teie õiguslikule seisundile kõige paremini vastav õigussubjekti liik.
• KM-kohustusega õigussubjekt: ettevõtja või organisatsioon, kes on registreeritud koguma ja maksma kaupadelt või
teenustelt käibemaksu – käibemaksukohustuslane.
• KM-kohustuseta õigussubjekt: ettevõtja või avalik-õiguslik organisatsioon, kes ei ole käibemaksu maksmiseks
registreeritud ega ole käibemaksukohustuslane.
• Füüsiline isik: üksikisik, kes tegutseb iseseisvalt või füüsilisest isikust ettevõtjana.
• Ettevõtjate rühm, kes EI OLE juriidiline isik: ettevõtjate rühma, kes ei ole juriidiline isik, hallatakse teisiti kui rühma,
kes on juriidiline isik. Rühma, kes on juriidiline isik, käsitatakse oma liikmetest eraldiseisva juriidilise isikuna. Rühm,
kes ei ole juriidiline isik, peab nimetama juhi, kes esindab teda suhtluses EPga. Juhi kohta tuleb EP
raamatupidamissüsteemis registreerida kõik vajalikud andmed. Enne rühma registreerimist tuleb kinnitada, et juht on
süsteemis juba olemas. Kui see nii ei ole, tuleb juhi teave esitada eraldi finantsteabe vormil. Kui täidate finantsteabe
vormi rühma kohta, kes ei ole juriidiline isik, tuleb valida „KM-kohustuseta õigussubjekt“ ja esitada õigussubjekti
käsitlevas osas teave rühma kohta.
KMKR number
Kui õigussubjekt on registreeritud koguma käibemaksu, sisestage ELi ühendusesisene KMKR number (mis sisaldab riigikoodi
ja numbrit), mille kehtivust saab kontrollida käibemaksuteabe vahetamise süsteemis (VIES) aadressil
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Erijuhtum, kus füüsilisel isikul on KMKR number: kui füüsilisel isikul on KMKR number, sest ta on vabakutseline või füüsilisest
isikust ettevõtja, märkige KMKR number selleks ette nähtud väljale. Välja täitmine on vabatahtlik; vastavalt vajadusele võib selle
täita või tühjaks jätta.
2.osa. Teave juriidilise isiku kohta
Esitage üksikasjalikud andmed juriidilise isiku kohta. Juriidiline isik ning tema õigused ja kohustused on seadusega tunnustatud.
• Õiguslik vorm: täpsustab juriidilise isiku, näiteks piiratud vastutusega äriühingu, täisühingu, mittetulundusühenduse,
avalik-õigusliku asutuse jne struktuuri.
• Organisatsiooni nimi: üksus ametlik registreeritud nimi, nagu see on märgitud lisatud ametlikus dokumendis.
3.osa. Teave füüsilise isiku kohta (ainult üksikisikute puhul)
Kui täidate vormi üksikisikuna, esitage oma isikuandmed.
• Eesnimi: teie eesnimi
• Perekonnanimi: teie perekonnanimi
4.osa. Aadress
Sisestage üksuse või üksikisiku registreeritud aadress: tänav, maja number, sihtnumber, asula/linn, riik. E-post (vabatahtlik):
E-posti aadressi kasutatakse suhtluseesmärgil. Selle esitamine ei ole kohustuslik.
5.osa. Pangaandmed
Täitke see osa oma pangakonto andmetega, nagu need on esitatud lisatud tõendil konto omaniku andmete kohta /
kontoväljavõttes. Esitage teave panga ja konto kohta, mida kasutatakse maksetehingute tegemiseks.
• Panga nimi: panga või finantsasutuse ametlik nimi.
• Kontoomaniku nimi: pangakonto omanikuks oleva isiku või üksuse nimi.
• IBAN: rahvusvaheline pangakontonumber, rahvusvaheliste tehingute puhul kasutatav standarditud kontotunnus.
• SWIFT-kood (BIC): ainulaadne panga tunnuskood, mida kasutatakse rahvusvaheliste elektrooniliste ülekannete
tegemisel.
• Vääring: vääring, milles konto on nomineeritud (nt euro, USA dollar jne).
• Kontonumber: kui IBAN puudub, märgistage kastike „Mul ei ole IBAN-numbrit“. Seejärel saate selle välja täita ja
esitada pangakonto numbri.
• Muu tunnuskood: see väli võimaldab esitada panga kohta lisaandmeid, mis on vajalikud kolmandate riikide
pangakontode registreerimiseks, eriti juhul, kui IBAN puudub.
Märkus: kui pangakonto omaniku aadress erineb eespool nimetatud juriidilise isiku / füüsilise isiku põhiaadressist, märkige
pangakonto omaniku aadress.ET
6. osa. Vormi esitamine ja kinnitamine
Selle osa peab täitma juriidilise isiku esindaja.
• Roll (ainult juriidiliste isikute puhul): täpsustatakse juriidilise isiku esindaja ametikoht või funktsioon (nt omanik,
direktor, müügijuht jne).
• Kuupäev: vormi täitmise ja esitamise kuupäev.
Lõpetuseks kinnitage, et kogu esitatud teave on täpne ja täielik. Nii on tagatud maksete tegemine õigele saajale. Pärast
kinnitamist andmed lukustatakse, et vältida nende hilisemat muutmist.
7. osa. Nõutavad dokumendid
Vormil esitatud teabe tõendamiseks ja vormi esitamise lõpuleviimiseks lisage sellele järgmised dokumendid. Kiire menetlemise
tagamiseks veenduge, et kogu vormil esitatud teave vastab teie ametlikes dokumentides sisalduvale teabele.
• Pangaandmete tõend
Konto omaniku andmeid tõendav dokument: tõend konto omaniku andmete kohta või kontoväljavõtte (mitte vanem kui
kuus kuud) koopia, millel on kontoomaniku nimi, kontonumber/IBAN, BIC/SWIFT-kood ja panga nimi. Muud tundlikud
andmed võite muuta loetamatuks.
• Identifitseerimisdokumendid
Füüsilised isikud: isikutunnistuse või passi koopia.
Üksused: koopia ametlikust dokumendist, millel on äriühingu nimi, KMRK number ja aadress (nt asutamistunnistus,
ettevõtte registreerimise tõend, äriregistri väljavõte, käibemaksukohustuslasena/maksukohustuslasena registreerimise
tõend; valitsuse või ametliku registri väljavõte).
Õigusnormid
Euroopa Parlamendi ja nõukogu 23. septembri 2024. aasta määruse (EL, Euratom) 2024/2509 (mis käsitleb liidu üldeelarve
suhtes kohaldatavaid finantsreegleid (uuesti sõnastatud)) artiklis 86 on sätestatud järgmine:
Artikli 86 lõige 3 – Rahavoogude juhtimine
„Enne kohustuste võtmist kolmanda isiku ees kontrollib eelarvevahendite käsutaja maksesaaja isikusamasust ning teeb kindlaks
tema õigussubjektsuse ja makseandmed ning kannab need selle liidu institutsiooni nimel ühisesse toimikusse, mille eest vastutab
eelarvevahendite käsutaja.
Peaarvepidaja võib teha makseid ainult juhul, kui liidu institutsioon, mille eest peaarvepidaja vastutab, on esmalt kandnud
maksesaaja juriidilise isiku andmed ja makseandmed ühisesse toimikusse.
Eelarvevahendite käsutaja teavitab peaarvepidajat kõikidest maksesaaja poolt neile teatatud muudatustest juriidilise isiku
andmetes ja makseandmetes ning kontrollib enne makse heakskiitmist, kas need andmed on kehtivad.“FI
TILITIETOLOMAKKEEN TÄYTTÖOHJE
Tilitietolomakkeeseen täytetään keskeiset taloudelliset ja oikeudelliset tiedot, joita tarvitaan maksujen käsittelyyn ja tilin
perustamiseen Euroopan parlamentin kirjanpitojärjestelmään. Noudata näitä ohjeita huolellisesti sen varmistamiseksi, että
toimitat lomakkeen kokonaan ja oikein täytettynä.
Lomake on englanniksi (lopussa siitä on käännökset kaikille EU:n kielille), mutta se on täytettävä alkukielellä.
Lomakkeessa ei saa käyttää erikoismerkkejä. Käytä lomakkeen täyttämisessä ainoastaan latinalaisia kirjaimia, ja
varmista, että tiedot ovat täsmälleen samassa muodossa kuin henkilöllisyystodistuksessasi tai yrityksen
rekisteröintiasiakirjoissa. Jos nimesi tai osoitteesi kirjoitetaan alkukielellä muilla kuin latinalaisilla aakkosilla, kuten
kyrillisillä tai kreikkalaisilla aakkosilla, latinaista se standardoitujen sääntöjen mukaisesti.
Osa 1: Oikeussubjektityyppi ja ALV-numero
Oikeussubjektityyppi
Ilmoita oikeudellista asemaa parhaiten kuvaava oikeussubjektityyppi.
• ALV-velvollinen oikeushenkilö: yritys tai organisaatio, joka on rekisteröitynyt keräämään ja maksamaan
arvonlisäveroa (ALV) tavaroista tai palveluista – ALV:n maksaja.
• Oikeushenkilö, joka ei ole ALV-velvollinen: yritys tai julkinen organisaatio, joka ei ole rekisteröitynyt
ALV-velvolliseksi eikä maksa ALV:tä.
• Luonnollinen henkilö: yksityishenkilö, joka toimii itsenäisesti tai yksityisenä elinkeinonharjoittajana.
• Talouden toimijoiden ryhmittymä, joka EI OLE oikeushenkilö: Talouden toimijoiden ryhmittymää, joka ei ole
oikeushenkilö, hallinnoidaan eri tavalla kuin ryhmittymää, joka on oikeushenkilö. Ryhmittymää, joka on oikeushenkilö,
kohdellaan jäsenistään erillisenä oikeushenkilönä. Sen sijaan ryhmittymän, joka ei ole oikeushenkilö, on nimettävä
johtaja, joka edustaa sitä toimissa Euroopan parlamentin kanssa. Johtajan kaikki tarvittavat tiedot on rekisteröitävä
Euroopan parlamentin kirjanpitojärjestelmään. Ennen ryhmän rekisteröintiä on varmistettava, että sen johtaja on jo
järjestelmässä. Jos johtajaa ei ole vielä rekisteröity, hänen tietonsa on annettava erillisellä tilitietolomakkeella. Kun
täytät lomaketta ryhmittymälle, joka ei ole oikeushenkilö, valitse vaihtoehto ”oikeushenkilö, joka ei ole ALV-velvollinen”
ja täytä oikeussubjektia koskevaan osaan ryhmittymän tiedot.
ALV-numero
Jos yhteisö on rekisteröitynyt keräämään ALV:tä, ilmoitetaan EU:n yhteisökaupassa käytettävä ALV-numero (johon sisältyy
maakoodi ja numero). Sen voi tarkistaa ALV-tietojen vaihtojärjestelmästä (VIES) osoitteessa
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Erityistapaukset, joissa luonnollisella henkilöllä on ALV-numero: Jos luonnollisella henkilöllä on ALV-numero, koska hän on
freelance-yrittäjä tai yksityinen elinkeinonharjoittaja, ALV-numero ilmoitetaan lomakkeessa olevassa ALV-numerolle tarkoitetussa
kentässä. Tämän kentän täyttäminen on vapaaehtoista, ja sen voi jättää tyhjäksi. Se on lomakkeessa siltä varalta, että se on
tarpeen.
Osa 2: Oikeushenkilön tiedot
Lisää tarkat tiedot oikeushenkilöstä. Oikeushenkilöstä ja sen oikeuksista ja velvollisuuksista säädetään laissa.
• Oikeudellinen muoto: Täsmennä oikeushenkilön rakenne, esimerkiksi osakeyhtiö, henkilöyhtiö, voittoa
tavoittelematon organisaatio, julkinen elin, jne.
• Organisaation nimi: Ilmoita yhteisön virallinen rekisteröity nimi sellaisena kuin se esitetään liitteenä olevassa
virallisessa asiakirjassa.
Osa 3: Luonnollisen henkilön tiedot (vain yksityishenkilöt täyttävät)
Jos täytät lomakkeen yksityishenkilönä, anna henkilötietosi:
• Etunimi: etunimi.
• Sukunimi: sukunimi.
Osa 4: Osoite
Merkitään yhteisön tai yksityishenkilön rekisteriin kirjatut osoitetiedot: katu, talon numero, postinumero, postitoimipaikka,
maa. Sähköpostiosoite (vapaaehtoinen): Sähköpostiosoitetta pyydetään viestintätarkoituksiin. Sen antaminen on
vapaaehtoista.
Osa 5: Pankin tiedot
Täytä tähän osioon pankkitilin tiedot sellaisina kuin ne ovat liitteenä olevassa todistuksessa pankkitilistä / tiliotteessa: anna tiedot
pankista ja tilistä, jolle maksut suoritetaan.
• Pankin nimi: pankin tai rahoituslaitoksen virallinen nimi.
• Tilinhaltijan nimi: sen henkilön tai yhteisön nimi, jolle pankkitili kuuluu.
• IBAN: International Bank Account Number, kansainvälisissä maksutapahtumissa käytettävä standardoitu tilitunniste.
• SWIFT-koodi (BIC): pankin yksilöivä tunniste, jota käytetään kansainvälisissä sähköisissä varojensiirroissa.
• Valuutta: tilin valuutta (esim. EUR, USD jne.).
• Tilinumero: Jos IBAN-tilinumeroa ei ole, merkitse rasti kohtaan ”Minulla ei ole IBAN-tilinumeroa” (”I do not have an
IBAN number”). Sen jälkeen voit täyttää tämän kentän ja antaa pankkitilin numeron.
• Muu pankin tunniste: Tähän kenttään voit lisätä pankkia koskevia lisätietoja, joita tarvitaan EU:n ulkopuolisten
pankkitilien rekisteröintiin, erityisesti silloin, kun ei ole IBAN-tilinumeroa.FI
Huom.: Jos tilinhaltijan osoite ei ole sama kuin edellä ilmoitettu oikeushenkilön / luonnollisen henkilön pääasiallinen osoite, ilmoita
tilinhaltijan osoite.
Osa 6: Lomakkeen toimittaminen ja hyväksyntä
Oikeushenkilön edustaja täyttää tämän osan:
• Tehtävä (vain oikeushenkilöt): Ilmoita oikeushenkilön edustajan asema tai tehtävä (esim. omistaja, johtaja,
myyntijohtaja, jne.).
• Päivämäärä: Merkitse lomakkeen täyttämis- ja toimituspäivä.
Vahvista lopuksi, että kaikki annetut tiedot ovat oikeita ja täydellisiä. Näin varmistetaan, että maksut suoritetaan oikealle
saajalle. Vahvistaminen lukitsee tiedot. Sen jälkeen niitä ei enää ole mahdollista muuttaa.
Osa 7: Vaaditut asiakirjat
Lomakkeen mukana on toimitettava seuraavat liiteasiakirjat, joilla todennetaan lomakkeessa annetut tiedot. Käsittelyn
nopeuttamiseksi varmista, että kaikki lomakkeessa annetut tiedot vastaavat virallisissa asiakirjoissa olevia tietoja:
• Todiste pankkitiedoista
Tilitiedot vahvistava asiakirja: todistus pankkitilistä tai jäljennös tiliotteesta (kuuden viime kuukauden ajalta), josta käy
ilmi tilinhaltijan nimi, tilinumero/IBAN, BIC/SWIFT-koodi ja pankin nimi. Voit peittää muut arkaluonteiset tiedot.
• Tunnistamisasiakirja
Luonnolliset henkilöt: jäljennös henkilökortista tai passista.
Yhteisöt: jäljennös virallisesta asiakirjasta, jossa on yrityksen nimi, ALV-numero ja osoite (esim. perustamistodistus,
yrityksen rekisteröintitodistus, kaupparekisteriote, todistus arvonlisäverovelvollisuudesta tai verovelvollisuudesta tai
ote valtion tai viranomaisen ylläpitämästä rekisteristä).
Säännökset
Unionin yleiseen talousarvioon sovellettavista varainhoitosäännöistä 23. syyskuuta 2024 annetun Euroopan parlamentin ja
neuvoston asetuksen (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 (uudelleenlaadittu) 86 artiklassa vahvistetaan seuraavat säännökset:
86 artiklan 3 kohta – Kassanhallinta
”Ennen kuin tulojen ja menojen hyväksyjä antaa sitoumuksen kolmannelle osapuolelle, hänen on varmistettava maksun saajan
henkilöllisyys, selvitettävä maksun saajan oikeussubjekti- ja pankkiyhteystiedot ja tallennettava ne tilinpitäjän vastuulla olevaan
unionin toimielimen yhteisrekisteriin.
Tilinpitäjä voi suorittaa maksut vain jos maksun saajan oikeussubjekti- ja pankkiyhteystiedot on sitä ennen tallennettu tilinpitäjän
vastuulla olevaan unionin toimielimen yhteisrekisteriin.
Tulojen ja menojen hyväksyjät ilmoittavat tilinpitäjälle kaikki maksun saajan heille ilmoittamat oikeussubjekti- ja
pankkiyhteystietojen muutokset ja tarkistavat ennen maksusuorituksen hyväksymistä, että kyseiset tiedot ovat voimassa.”FR
GUIDE POUR COMPLÉTER LE FORMULAIRE SIGNALÉTIQUE FINANCIER
Le formulaire signalétique financier comporte les données financières et juridiques essentielles au traitement des paiements et
à la création de votre compte dans le système comptable du Parlement européen. Veuillez vous conformer strictement aux
instructions suivantes pour compléter et envoyer comme il se doit le formulaire.
Le formulaire est en anglais (sa traduction dans toutes les langues de l’Union figure au verso), mais veuillez le compléter
dans la langue originale sans utiliser de caractères spéciaux. Veuillez n’utiliser que des caractères latins en veillant à
reproduire exactement les informations qui figurent sur votre document d’identité ou dans les documents
d’enregistrement de la société. Si votre nom ou votre adresse y figurent dans un alphabet autre que l’alphabet latin
(cyrillique ou grec, par exemple), veuillez utiliser les règles de translittération habituelles en caractères latins.
Section 1: type d’entité juridique et numéro de TVA
Type d’entité juridique
Indiquez le type d’entité qui correspond le mieux à votre statut juridique.
• Entité juridique avec TVA: désigne une entreprise ou un organisme immatriculé pour collecter et verser la taxe sur
la valeur ajoutée (TVA) sur les biens ou les services – assujetti à la TVA.
• Entité juridique sans TVA: désigne une entreprise ou un organisme public qui n’est pas immatriculé à la TVA et qui
n’y est pas assujetti.
• Personne physique: un particulier qui exerce une activité indépendante.
• Groupement d’opérateurs économiques SANS entité juridique: Un groupement d’opérateurs économiques sans
entité juridique est géré différemment d’un groupement qui dispose d’une entité juridique. Alors qu’un groupement
disposant d’une entité juridique est traité comme une entité juridique séparée, distincte de ses membres, un
groupement sans entité juridique doit désigner un chef de file pour le représenter dans ses relations avec le Parlement
européen. Le chef de file doit être enregistré dans le système comptable du Parlement avec toutes les données
nécessaires. Avant d’enregistrer le groupement, il est essentiel de confirmer que le chef de file existe déjà dans le
système. Si tel n’est pas le cas, un formulaire signalétique financier supplémentaire devra être complété avec les
données du chef de file. Lorsque le formulaire signalétique financier porte sur un groupement sans entité juridique,
l’option «Entité juridique sans TVA» doit être sélectionnée et la section «Entité juridique» doit être complétée avec les
informations relatives au groupement.
Numéro de TVA
Pour les entités immatriculées à la TVA, veuillez indiquer le numéro de TVA intracommunautaire européen (composé d’un
code pays et d’un numéro), lequel peut être vérifié dans le système VIES de validation du numéro de TVA à l’adresse
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Cas particulier du numéro de TVA pour les personnes physiques: Lorsqu’une personne physique dispose d’un numéro de
TVA car elle exerce une profession libérale ou une activité indépendante, veuillez indiquer le numéro de TVA dans le champ
prévu à cet effet. Ce champ est facultatif et peut être laissé vide, mais il est disponible en cas de besoin.
Section 2: informations relatives à l’entité juridique
Veuillez indiquer les données relatives à l’entité juridique. L’entité juridique est reconnue par la loi avec des droits et des
obligations.
• Forme juridique: désigne la nature de l’entité juridique, comme une société à responsabilité limitée, un partenariat,
une association à but non lucratif, un organisme public, etc.
• Nom de l’organisation: la désignation officielle enregistrée de l’entité telle qu’elle figure dans le document officiel joint
au formulaire.
Section 3: informations relatives à la personne physique (particuliers uniquement)
Si vous complétez ce formulaire en tant que particulier, veuillez indiquer vos coordonnées personnelles:
• Prénom: votre prénom.
• Nom: votre nom de famille.
Section 4: adresse
Veuillez indiquer l’adresse enregistrée de l’entité ou de la personne: rue, numéro, code postal, ville, pays, courriel (facultatif):
L’adresse électronique est destinée à la communication. Elle n’est pas obligatoire.
Section 5: coordonnées bancaires
Veuillez indiquer vos coordonnées bancaires telles qu’elles figurent dans le RIB ou le relevé bancaire joint au formulaire. Veuillez
préciser l’établissement bancaire et le compte destiné aux opérations de paiement.
• Nom de la banque: le nom officiel de la banque ou de l’établissement financier.
• Nom du titulaire de compte: le nom de la personne ou de l’entité qui possède le compte bancaire.
• IBAN: identifiant international de compte bancaire, numéro de compte normalisé destiné aux opérations
internationales.
• SWIFT Code (BIC): code unique d'identification bancaire utilisé pour les virements électroniques internationaux.
• Devise: la devise dans laquelle le compte est libellé (EUR, USD, etc.).
• Numéro de compte: si aucun IBAN n’est disponible, veuillez cocher «I do not have an IBAN number» et indiquer votre
numéro de compte bancaire.FR
• Autre code d’identification bancaire: permet d’indiquer les coordonnées bancaires supplémentaires nécessaires à
l’enregistrement de comptes bancaires extérieurs à l’Union, notamment lorsqu’aucun IBAN n’est disponible.
Note: Si l’adresse du titulaire du compte bancaire diffère de l’adresse principale de l’entité juridique ou de la personne indiquée
plus haut, veuillez préciser l'adresse du titulaire du compte.
Section 6: envoi du formulaire et autorisation
Cette section doit être complétée par le représentant de l’entité juridique:
• Poste (uniquement pour les entités juridiques): précise le poste ou la fonction du représentant de l’entité juridique
(propriétaire, directeur, directeur des ventes, etc.).
• Date: date d’envoi du formulaire complété.
En dernier lieu, veuillez confirmer que toutes les informations indiquées sont exactes et complètes pour que les
paiements soient effectués au bénéficiaire voulu. Après confirmation, les informations de ce champ seront verrouillées
pour empêcher toute modification ultérieure.
Section 7: documents à fournir
Afin de vérifier les informations indiquées dans le formulaire et de finaliser la procédure, veuillez joindre les documents suivants.
Afin d’éviter tout retard de traitement, veuillez vérifier que toutes les informations indiquées dans le formulaire sont identiques à
celles qui figurent dans les documents officiels.
• Preuve de coordonnées bancaires
Document certifiant votre identité bancaire: RIB ou copie de relevé bancaire (de moins de six mois) indiquant le nom
du titulaire du compte, le numéro de compte/IBAN, le code BIC/SWIFT et le nom de la banque. Vous pouvez occulter
les autres informations sensibles.
• Document d’identification
Pour les personnes physiques, une copie de votre carte d’identité ou de votre passeport.
Pour les entités, une copie d’un document officiel comportant le nom, le numéro de TVA et l’adresse de la société
(certificat de constitution en société, certificat d’immatriculation professionnelle, extrait du registre de commerce,
attestation d’immatriculation à la TVA/certificat d’enregistrement fiscal; extrait d’un annuaire public ou officiel).
Dispositions réglementaires
L’article 86 du règlement (UE, Euratom) 2024/2509 du Parlement européen et du Conseil du 23 septembre 2024 relatif aux
règles financières applicables au budget général de l’Union (refonte) stipule ce qui suit:
Article 86, paragraphe 3 – Gestion de trésorerie
«Avant de conclure un engagement envers un tiers, l’ordonnateur confirme l’identité du bénéficiaire, établit les données identifiant
le bénéficiaire comme une entité juridique ainsi que ses coordonnées bancaires et les enregistre dans le fichier commun par
institution de l’Union dont il est responsable.
Le comptable ne peut effectuer un paiement que si les données identifiant le bénéficiaire comme une entité juridique et ses
coordonnées bancaires ont été préalablement enregistrées dans un fichier commun par l’institution de l’Union dont le comptable
est responsable.
Les ordonnateurs informent le comptable de tout changement des données identifiant le bénéficiaire comme une entité juridique
et des coordonnées bancaires qui leur sont communiquées par le bénéficiaire et vérifient que ces données et coordonnées sont
valables avant de procéder à l’ordonnancement d’un paiement.»GA
TREOIR MAIDIR LEIS AN bhFOIRM AITHEANTAIS AIRGEADAIS A CHOMHLÁNÚ
Leis an bhFoirm Aitheantais Airgeadais (FAA), bailítear na sonraí riachtanacha airgeadais agus dlíthiúla is gá chun íocaíochtaí
a phróiseáil agus chun do chuntas a chur ar bun i gcóras cuntasaíochta Pharlaimint na hEorpa. Lean na treoracha seo go
cúramach lena áirithiú go dtaisctear an fhoirm go hiomlán agus go cruinn.
Tá an fhoirm i mBéarla (tá aistriúcháin go gach teanga AE ar fáil ar na leathanaigh chúil), ach comhlánaigh sa
bhunteanga gan carachtair speisialta. Úsáid carachtair na Laidine amháin, agus cinntigh go bhfuil an t-eolas go díreach
mar atá sé ar do chárta aitheantais nó doiciméid chlárúcháin na cuideachta. Má tá d’ainm nó do sheoladh scríofa ar dtús
in aibítir neamh-Laidine, mar shampla an aibítir Choireallach nó aibítir na Gréigise, bain úsáid as rialacha um thras-
scríobh caighdeánaithe chun é a thiontú go cruinn i gcarachtair Laidineacha.
Roinn 1: Cineál Eintitis Dhlítheanaigh agus Uimhir CBL
Cineál Eintitis Dhlítheanaigh
Sonraigh an cineál eintitis is fearr a thugann tuairisc ar do stádas dlíthiúil.
• Eintiteas Dlítheanach a bhfuil CBL aige: Tagraíonn sé do ghnólacht nó d’eagraíocht atá cláraithe chun Cáin
Bhreisluacha (CBL) a bhailiú agus a íoc ar earraí nó ar sheirbhísí — íocóir CBL.
• Eintiteas Dlítheanach gan CBL: Tagraíonn sé do ghnó nó d’eagraíocht phoiblí, nach bhfuil cláraithe le haghaidh CBL
agus nach cáiníocóir CBL é.
• Duine Nádúrtha: Duine aonair a oibríonn go neamhspleách nó mar thrádálaí aonair.
• Grúpa Oibreoirí Eacnamaíocha GAN Eintiteas Dlítheanach: Déantar grúpa oibreoirí eacnamaíocha nach bhfuil
eintiteas dlíthiúil acu a bhainistiú ar bhealach éagsúil le grúpa a bhfuil eintiteas dlíthiúil aige. Cé go gcaitear le grúpa
ag a bhfuil eintiteas dlíthiúil mar eintiteas dlíthiúil ar leithligh óna chomhaltaí, ní mór do ghrúpa nach bhfuil eintiteas
dlíthiúil aige ceannaire a cheapadh chun ionadaíocht a dhéanamh air in idirghníomhaíochtaí le Parlaimint na hEorpa.
Ní mór don cheannaire a bheith cláraithe i gcóras cuntasaíochta na Parlaiminte leis na sonraí go léir is gá. Sula
gcláraítear an grúpa, tá sé riachtanach a dheimhniú go bhfuil an ceannaire sa chóras cheana féin. Mura bhfuil, ní mór
Foirm Aitheantais Airgeadais (FAA) bhreise a chomhlánú le faisnéis an cheannaire. Nuair is don ghrúpa gan eintiteas
dlíthiúil atá FAA, ní mór an rogha ‘Eintiteas Dlíthiúil gan CBL’ a roghnú, agus ba cheart an Roinn Eintitis Dhlítheanaigh
a chomhlánú chun faisnéis an ghrúpa a chur san áireamh.
Uimhir CBL
I gcás eintitis atá cláraithe chun CBL a bhailiú, cuir isteach uimhir CBL laistigh den Chomhphobal (lena n-áirítear cód agus
uimhir na tíre), ar féidir í a fhíorú i gcóras bailíochtaithe uimhreacha CBL VIES trí
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Cás Speisialta Uimhir CBL do Dhaoine Nádúrtha: Má tá uimhir CBL ag duine nádúrtha toisc gur saoroibrí nó trádálaí aonair
é/í, cuir an uimhir CBL san áireamh sa réimse CBL atá ar fáil. Tá an réimse seo roghnach agus is féidir é a fhágáil folamh, ach
tá sé ar fáil i gcás inar gá.
Roinn 2: Faisnéis faoin Eintiteas Dlíthiúil
Tabhair sonraí maidir leis an eintiteas dlítheanach. Aithnítear Eintiteas Dlíthiúil de réir an dlí le cearta agus oibleagáidí.
• Foirm dhlíthiúil: Sonraítear struchtúr an eintitis dhlíthiúil, amhail cuideachta faoi dhliteanas teoranta, nó
comhpháirtíocht, nó eagraíocht neamhbhrabúsach, comhlacht poiblí, etc.
• Ainm na hEagraíochta: Ainm cláraithe an eintitis mar a shonraítear sa doiciméad oifigiúil atá i gceangal leis seo.
Roinn 3: Faisnéis do Dhaoine Nádúrtha (do dhaoine aonair amháin)
Má tá an fhoirm seo á comhlánú agat mar dhuine aonair, tabhair do shonraí pearsanta, le do thoil:
• Céadainm: Do chéad ainm.
• Sloinne: Do shloinne.
Roinn 4: Seoladh
Cuir isteach mionsonraí seolta cláraithe an eintitis nó an duine aonair: sráid, uimhir an tí, cód poist, baile, tír. Ríomhphost
(roghnach): An seoladh ríomhphoist chun críocha cumarsáide. Ní réimse éigeantach é an ríomhphost.
Roinn 5: Faisnéis faoin mBanc
Comhlánaigh an roinn seo le do shonraí cuntais bainc, mar atá sonraithe in RIB atá i gceangal leis seo / i ráiteas bainc: Tabhair
sonraí faoin mbanc agus faoin gcuntas atá le húsáid le haghaidh idirbhearta íocaíochta.
• Ainm an Bhainc: ainm oifigiúil an bhainc nó na hinstitiúide airgeadais.
• Ainm an tSealbhóra Cuntais: ainm an duine nó an eintitis ar leis an cuntas bainc.
• IBAN: Uimhir Idirnáisiúnta Cuntais Bainc, aitheantóir cuntais caighdeánaithe a úsáidtear le haghaidh idirbhearta
idirnáisiúnta.
• Cód SWIFT (BIC): Cód uathúil aitheantóra bainc a úsáidtear le haghaidh aistrithe idirnáisiúnta de dhroim sreinge.
• Airgeadra: An t-airgeadra ina n-ainmnítear an cuntas (e.g., EUR, USD, etc.).
• Uimhir an Chuntais: mura bhfuil IBAN ar fáil, cuir tic le ‘Níl uimhir IBAN agam’, chun an réimse seo a chumasú agus
ansin scríobh an uimhir cuntais bainc.
• Aitheantóir Bainc Eile: sa réimse seo is féidir sonraí bainc breise a chur san áireamh a theastaíonn chun cuntais
bhainc neamh-AE a chlárú, go háirithe nuair nach bhfuil IBAN ar fáil.GA
Tabhair faoi deara: Má tá seoladh shealbhóir an chuntais bainc éagsúil le príomhsheoladh an eintitis dhlítheanaigh/an duine dá
bhforáiltear thuas, sonraigh seoladh shealbhóir an chuntais bainc.
Roinn 6: Taisceadh Foirme agus Údarú
Ní mór d’ionadaí an Eintitis Dhlítheanaigh an roinn seo a chomhlánú:
• Ról (le haghaidh Eintitis Dhlítheanacha amháin): Sonraítear leis post nó feidhm ionadaí an eintitis dhlítheanaigh
(e.g., úinéir, stiúrthóir, bainisteoir díolacháin, etc.).
• Dáta: an dáta a comhlánaíodh an fhoirm agus a cuireadh isteach í.
Mar chéim dheiridh, bailíochtaigh go bhfuil an fhaisnéis uile a sholáthraítear cruinn agus iomlán chun a áirithiú go
ndéantar íocaíochtaí leis an tairbhí ceart. Nuair a bheidh sé bailíochtaithe, déantar na sonraí sa réimse seo a ghlasáil
chun aon athruithe breise a chosc.
Roinn 7: Doiciméid Riachtanacha
Cuir na doiciméid seo a leanas i gceangal, le do thoil, chun an fhaisnéis a soláthraíodh ar an bhfoirm a fhíorú agus chun do
thaisceadh a thabhairt chun críche. Cinntigh go bhfuil an t-eolas ar fad san fhoirm ag teacht leis na sonraí i do dhoiciméid oifigiúla
chun moilleanna próiseála a sheachaint:
• Cruthúnas ar Fhaisnéis Bhaincéireachta
Doiciméad a dheimhníonn d’aitheantas baincéireachta: RIB nó cóip de ráiteas bainc (dar dáta le 6 mhí anuas) ar a
dtaispeántar ainm, uimhir chuntais/IBAN, cód BIC/SWIFT, agus ainm bainc an tsealbhóra cuntais. Féadfaidh tú faisnéis
íogair eile a fholú.
• Doiciméid aitheantais
I gcás daoine nádúrtha, cóip de do chárta aitheantais nó de do phas;
I gcás eintiteas, cóip de dhoiciméad oifigiúil ina bhfuil ainm, CBL agus seoladh na cuideachta (e.g. deimhniú corpraithe,
deimhniú clárúcháin gnó, sliocht as an gclár tráchtála, deimhniú clárúcháin cánach/CBL; Sliocht as Eolaire Rialtais nó
Oifigiúil).
Forálacha rialúcháin
Luaitear na forálacha seo a leanas in Airteagal 86 de Rialachán (AE, Euratom) 2024/2509 ó Pharlaimint na hEorpa agus ón
gComhairle an 23 Meán Fómhair 2024 maidir leis na rialacha airgeadais is infheidhme maidir le buiséad ginearálta an Aontais
(athmhúnlú):
Airteagal 86.3 — Bainistíocht Státchiste
Sula rachaidh sé nó sí isteach i ngealltanas le tríú páirtí, déanfaidh an t-oifigeach údarúcháin céannacht an íocaí a dheimhniú,
eintiteas dlítheanach agus sonraí íocaíochta an íocaí a bhunú agus iad a iontráil sa chomhchomhad de réir na hinstitiúide de
chuid an Aontais as a bhfuil an t-oifigeach cuntasaíochta freagrach.
Féadfaidh an t-oifigeach cuntasaíochta íocaíochtaí a dhéanamh i gcás inar iontráladh eintiteas dlítheanach agus sonraí
íocaíochta an íocaí i gcomhchomhad roimh ré de réir institiúid an Aontais as a bhfuil an t-oifigeach cuntasaíochta freagrach, agus
sa chás sin amháin.
Cuirfidh oifigigh údarúcháin an t-oifigeach cuntasaíochta ar an eolas faoi aon athrú sna sonraí eintitis dhlítheanaigh agus
íocaíochta a chuirfidh an t-íocaí in iúl dóibh agus seiceálfaidh siad an bhfuil na sonraí sin bailí sula n-údaróidh siad aon íocaíocht.HR
VODIČ ZA ISPUNJAVANJE FINANCIJSKOG OBRASCA
U financijskom obrascu prikupljaju se ključni financijski i pravni podaci potrebni za obradu plaćanja i otvaranje računa u
računovodstvenom sustavu Europskog parlamenta. Pažljivo slijedite ove upute kako bi podaci na obrascu bili potpuni i točni.
Obrazac je na engleskom jeziku (prijevodi na sve jezike EU-a navedeni su na poleđini), ali ga ispunjavate na izvornom
jeziku bez dijakritičkih znakova. Ispunite obrazac samo na latinici, pazeći da se informacije podudaraju s informacijama
navedenima na vašoj osobnoj iskaznici ili dokumentima za registraciju poduzeća. Ako su vaše ime ili adresa izvorno
napisani na nelatiničnom pismu, kao što su ćirilica ili grčko pismo, koristite se standardiziranim pravilima transliteracije
kako biste ih ispravno napisali latiničnim slovima.
Odjeljak 1.: Vrsta pravne osobe i PDV broj
Vrsta pravne osobe
Navedite vrstu pravne osobe koja najbolje opisuje vaš pravni status.
• Pravna osoba koja je obveznik PDV-a: Odnosi se na poduzeće ili organizaciju koja je registrirana za naplatu i
plaćanje poreza na dodanu vrijednost (PDV) na robu ili usluge – obveznik PDV-a.
• Pravna osoba koja nije obveznik PDV-a: Odnosi se na poslovnu ili javnu organizaciju koja nije registrirana u sustavu
PDV-a i nije obveznik PDV-a.
• Fizička osoba: Fizička osoba koja djeluje samostalno ili kao samostalni poduzetnik.
• Skupina gospodarskih subjekata bez pravne osobnosti: Skupinom gospodarskih subjekata bez pravne osobnosti
upravlja se drukčije od skupine koja ima pravnu osobnost. Dok se skupina s pravnom osobnosti smatra zasebnom
pravnom osobom odvojenom od svojih članova, skupina bez pravne osobnosti mora imenovati predstavnika koji će je
zastupati u interakciji s EP-om. Predstavnik mora biti registriran u računovodstvenom sustavu EP-a sa svim potrebnim
pojedinostima. Prije registracije skupine potrebno je potvrditi da je predstavnik već zabilježen u sustavu. Ako to nije
slučaj, potrebno je ispuniti dodatni financijski obrazac s podacima o predstavniku. Ako se financijski obrazac odnosi na
skupinu bez pravne osobnosti, mora se odabrati opcija „Legal Entity without VAT” (Pravna osoba koja nije obveznik
PDV-a) i ispuniti odjeljak „Legal Entity” (Pravna osoba) kako bi se uključile informacije o skupini.
PDV identifikacijski broj
Za subjekte registrirane za naplatu PDV-a unesite PDV identifikacijski broj unutar EU-a (uključujući oznaku i broj zemlje), koji
se može provjeriti u sustavu za potvrdu PDV identifikacijskog broja VIES na https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-
validation.
Poseban slučaj PDV identifikacijskog broja za fizičke osobe: Ako fizička osoba ima PDV identifikacijski broj jer je samostalni
djelatnik ili samostalni poduzetnik, unesite PDV identifikacijski broj u dostupno polje za PDV. To polje nije potrebno ispuniti i može
se ostaviti prazno, ali je dostupno ako vam je potrebno.
Odjeljak 2.: Podaci o pravnoj osobi
Navedite pojedinosti o pravnoj osobi. Pravna osoba priznata je zakonom te ima prava i obveze.
• Pravni oblik: Definira strukturu pravne osobe, kao što je društvo s ograničenom odgovornošću, partnerstvo ili
neprofitna organizacija, javno tijelo itd.
• Ime organizacije: Službeno, registrirano ime subjekta kako je navedeno u priloženom službenom dokumentu.
Odjeljak 3.: Podaci o fizičkoj osobi (samo za pojedince)
Ako ispunjavate obrazac kao pojedinac, navedite svoje osobne podatke:
• Ime: Vaše ime.
• Prezime: Vaše prezime.
Odjeljak 4.: Adresa
Unesite podatke o registriranoj adresi subjekta ili pojedinca: ulica, kućni broj, poštanski broj, grad, država. E-adresa
(neobvezno): Adresa elektroničke pošte za komunikacijske svrhe. Polje e-adrese nije obvezno.
Odjeljak 5.: Bankovni podaci
Ispunite ovaj odjeljak podacima o bankovnom računu, kako je navedeno u priloženoj potvrdi o bankovnom računu / bankovnom
izvodu: Navedite pojedinosti o banci i računu koji će se koristiti za platne transakcije.
• Naziv banke: službeni naziv banke ili financijske institucije.
• Ime vlasnika računa: ime osobe ili subjekta koji je vlasnik bankovnog računa.
• IBAN: Međunarodni broj bankovnog računa, standardizirani identifikator računa koji se koristi za međunarodne
transakcije.
• SWIFT kôd (BIC): Jedinstveni bankovni identifikacijski kôd koji se upotrebljava za međunarodne elektroničke
prijenose.
• Valuta: Valuta u kojoj se vodi račun (npr. EUR, USD itd.).
• Broj računa: ako IBAN nije dostupan, označite „Nemam IBAN broj” kako biste aktivirali ovo polje i navedite broj
bankovnog računa.
• Druga identifikacijska oznaka banke: u ovo polje možete unijeti dodatne bankovne podatke potrebne za registraciju
bankovnih računa izvan EU-a, posebno ako IBAN nije dostupan.
Napomena: Ako se adresa vlasnika bankovnog računa razlikuje od glavne adrese prethodno navedene pravne osobe / fizičke
osobe, navedite adresu vlasnika bankovnog računa.HR
Odjeljak 6.: Podnošenje obrasca i odobrenje
Zastupnik pravne osobe mora ispuniti ovaj odjeljak:
• Uloga (samo za pravne osobe): Položaj ili funkcija zastupnika pravne osobe (npr. vlasnika, direktora, voditelja prodaje
itd.).
• Datum: datum ispunjavanja i podnošenja obrasca.
U završnom koraku potvrdite da su sve dostavljene informacije točne i potpune kako bi se plaćanja izvršila pravom
korisniku. Nakon potvrde, polje se zaključava kako bi se spriječile daljnje promjene.
Odjeljak 7.: Potrebni dokumenti
Priložite sljedeće dokumente kako biste potvrdili informacije navedene u obrascu i dovršili postupak. Provjerite odgovaraju li sve
informacije u obrascu podacima u službenim dokumentima kako biste izbjegli kašnjenja u obradi:
• Dokaz o bankovnim podacima
Dokument kojim se potvrđuje vaš bankovni identitet: Potvrda o bankovnom računu ili preslika bankovnog izvoda
(izdana u proteklih šest mjeseci) na kojem su navedeni ime i prezime vlasnika računa, broj računa/IBAN, BIC/SWIFT
kôd i naziv banke. Možete zacrniti ostale osjetljive informacije.
• Identifikacijski dokumenti
Za fizičke osobe, preslika osobne iskaznice ili putovnice;
Za pravne osobe, preslika službenog dokumenta s nazivom, PDV brojem i adresom trgovačkog društva (npr. potvrda
o osnivanju, potvrda o registraciji poduzeća, izvadak iz trgovačkog registra, potvrda o PDV-u/poreznoj registraciji;
izvadak iz državnog ili službenog imenika).
Regulatorne odredbe
U članku 86. Uredbe (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 Europskog parlamenta i Vijeća od 23. rujna 2024. o financijskim pravilima koja
se primjenjuju na opći proračun Unije (preinaka) navode se sljedeće odredbe:
Članak 86. stavak 3. Upravljanje riznicom
„Prije preuzimanja obveze prema trećoj osobi dužnosnik za ovjeravanje potvrđuje identitet primatelja plaćanja, utvrđuje podatke
o pravnoj osobi i bankovnom računu primatelja plaćanja i unosi ih u zajedničku datoteku institucije Unije za koju je
računovodstveni službenik odgovoran.
Računovodstveni službenik može izvršiti plaćanje samo ako je institucija Unije za koju je odgovoran prethodno u zajedničku
datoteku unijela podatke o pravnoj osobi i bankovnom računu primatelja plaćanja.
Dužnosnici za ovjeravanje obavješćuju računovodstvenog službenika o svim promjenama pravne osobe i podataka o bankovnom
računu koje im je priopćio primatelj plaćanja te prije odobravanja plaćanja provjeravaju jesu li ti podaci valjani.”HU
ÚTMUTATÓ A PÉNZÜGYI AZONOSÍTÓ FORMANYOMTATVÁNY KITÖLTÉSÉHEZ
A pénzügyi azonosító formanyomtatvány összegyűjti az Európai Parlament (EP) számviteli rendszerében a fizetések
feldolgozásához és az Ön fiókjának létrehozásához szükséges alapvető pénzügyi és jogi adatokat. A formanyomtatvány
hiánytalan és pontos kitöltése érdekében gondosan kövesse ezeket az utasításokat.
A formanyomtatvány angol nyelvű (fordítása az összes uniós nyelvre a hátoldalon található), azonban töltse ki eredeti
nyelven, különleges karakterek nélkül. Kérjük, csak latin karaktereket használjon a nyomtatvány kitöltésekor, és
ügyeljen arra, hogy az adatok pontosan megegyezzenek a személyazonosító igazolványában vagy a cégbejegyzési
dokumentumaiban szereplő adatokkal. Ha az Ön nevét vagy címét eredetileg nem latin betűs ábécével, például cirill
vagy görög betűkkel írják, kérjük, használja a szabványosított átírási szabályokat a latin betűkre való pontos átíráshoz.
1.szakasz: Jogi személy típusa és adószám
Jogi személy típusa
a jogi személy(ek) azon típusát, amelyik a legjobban leírja jogi státuszát.
• Jogi személy ÁFA-val: Olyan vállalkozás vagy szervezet, amelyet úgy vettek nyilvántartásba, hogy termékek vagy
szolgáltatások után hozzáadottérték-adó (héa) beszedésére és megfizetésére jogosult – héaalany.
• Jogi személy ÁFA nélkül: Olyan vállalkozás vagy közszervezet, amely nem szerepel a héanyilvántartásban, és amely
nem héaalany.
• Magánszemély: Olyan önálló személy, aki függetlenül vagy egyéni vállalkozóként működik.
• Jogi személyiséggel NEM RENDELKEZŐ gazdasági szereplők csoportja: A jogi személyiséggel nem rendelkező
gazdasági szereplők csoportját másként kezelik, mint a jogi személyiséggel rendelkező csoportot. Míg a jogi
személyiséggel rendelkező csoportot a tagjaitól különálló jogi személyként kezelik, a jogi személyiséggel nem
rendelkező csoportnak ki kell jelölnie egy vezetőt, aki képviseli az EP-vel való kapcsolattartásban. A vezetőt minden
szükséges adattal rögzíteni kell az EP számviteli rendszerében. A csoport regisztrálása előtt feltétlenül ellenőrizni kell,
hogy a vezető már benne van-e a rendszerben. Ha nincs benne, ki kell tölteni még egy pénzügyi azonosító
formanyomtatványt a vezető adataival. Amennyiben a pénzügyi azonosító formanyomtatvány a jogi személyiséggel
nem rendelkező csoportra vonatkozik, a „Jogi személy ÁFA nélkül” opciót kell kiválasztani, és a Jogi személy
szakaszba kell beírni a csoport adatait.
Adószám
Héa beszedésére jogosult szervezetek esetében kérjük, adja meg az uniós adószámot (beleértve az országkódot és a számot), amely az uniós
adószám ellenőrzésére szolgáló rendszerben (VIES) ellenőrizhető. https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Az adószámmal rendelkező magánszemélyek különleges esete: Szabadúszóként vagy egyéni vállalkozóként adószámmal
rendelkező magánszemély esetében kérjük, tüntesse fel az adószámot a rendelkezésre álló mezőben. Ez a mező opcionális,
üresen hagyható, de szükség esetén rendelkezésre áll.
2.szakasz: A jogi személyre vonatkozó információk
Kérjük, adja meg a jogi személy adatait. A jogi személyt a jog elismeri, és jogokkal és kötelezettségekkel ruházza fel.
• Jogi forma: Meghatározza a jogi személy struktúráját, például korlátolt felelősségű társaság, vagy partnerség, vagy
nonprofit szervezet, állami szerv stb.
• Szervezet neve: A szervezet hivatalos, bejegyzett neve, a csatolt hivatalos dokumentumban meghatározottak szerint.
3.szakasz: Magánszemélyekre vonatkozó információk (csak egyének esetében)
Ha Ön magánszemélyként tölti ki ezt az űrlapot, kérjük, adja meg személyes adatait:
• Keresztnév: Az Ön utóneve.
• Vezetéknév: Az Ön családi neve.
4.szakasz: Cím
Adja meg a jogalany vagy magánszemély bejegyzett címét: utca, házszám, irányítószám, város, ország. E-mail-cím (nem
kötelező): Az elektronikus levelezési cím kommunikáció céljából. Az e-mail-cím megadása nem kötelező.
5.szakasz: Banki adatok
Ebbe a részbe írja be a bankszámlaadatait, a mellékelt banki azonosítóban (RIB)/bankszámlakivonatban meghatározottak
szerint: adja meg a fizetési műveletekhez használandó bankra és bankszámlára vonatkozó adatokat.
• Bank neve: a bank vagy pénzügyi intézmény hivatalos neve.
• Számlatulajdonos neve: a bankszámlával rendelkező személy vagy szervezet neve.
• IBAN: nemzetközi bankszámlaszám, a nemzetközi ügyletekhez használt szabványosított számlaazonosító.
• SWIFT-kód (BIC): a nemzetközi átutalásokhoz használt egyedi banki azonosító kód.
• Pénznem: az a pénznem, amelyben a számlát vezetik (pl. EUR, USD stb.).
• Számlaszám: ha nem áll rendelkezésre IBAN-szám, ennek a mezőnek az aktiválásához jelölje be a „Nem
rendelkezem IBAN-számmal” mezőt, és adja meg a bankszámlaszámot.
• Egyéb banki azonosító: ez a mező lehetővé teszi a nem uniós bankszámlák nyilvántartásba vételéhez szükséges
további banki adatok feltüntetését, különösen akkor, ha nem áll rendelkezésre IBAN-szám.
Megjegyzés: Ha a bankszámla-tulajdonos címe eltér a fent megadott jogi személy/magánszemély fő címétől, kérjük, adja meg
a bankszámla-tulajdonos címét.HU
6. szakasz: A formanyomtatvány benyújtása és engedélyezés
Ezt a szakaszt a jogi személy képviselőjének kell kitöltenie:
• Pozíció (csak jogi személyek esetében): meghatározza a jogi személy képviselőjének pozícióját vagy funkcióját (pl.
tulajdonos, igazgató, értékesítési vezető stb.).
• Dátum: a formanyomtatvány kitöltésének és benyújtásának dátuma.
Végezetül kérjük, erősítse meg, hogy a megadott információk pontosak és hiánytalanok-e annak biztosítása érdekében,
hogy a kifizetéseket a megfelelő kedvezményezett kapja. A megerősítést követően ez a mező zárolja az adatokat a
további változtatások megakadályozása érdekében.
7. szakasz: Szükséges dokumentumok
Kérjük, hogy a formanyomtatványon megadott információk ellenőrzéséhez és a formanyomtatvány benyújtásához csatolja az
alábbi dokumentumokat. A késedelmes feldolgozás elkerülése érdekében győződjön meg arról, hogy a formanyomtatványon
szereplő valamennyi információ megegyezik a hivatalos dokumentumaiban szereplő adatokkal:
• Banki információk igazolása
Az Ön banki azonosítóját igazoló dokumentum: banki azonosító (RIB) vagy (az elmúlt hat hónapban keltezett)
bankszámlakivonat másolata, amely tartalmazza a számlatulajdonos nevét, a számlaszámot/IBAN-számot, a
BIC/SWIFT-kódot és a bank nevét. Egyéb érzékeny adatokat kitakarhat.
• Azonosító okmányok
Magánszemélyek esetében személyazonosító igazolványának vagy útlevelének másolata;
Jogi személyek esetében a vállalat nevét, adószámát és címét tartalmazó hivatalos dokumentum másolata (pl.
cégkivonat, cégbejegyzési igazolás, cégnyilvántartási kivonat, adószám/adóigazgatási nyilvántartásba vételi igazolás;
kormányzati vagy hivatalos címjegyzékből származó kivonat).
Jogszabályi előírások
Az Unió általános költségvetésére alkalmazandó pénzügyi szabályokról szóló, 2024. szeptember 23-i (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509
európai parlamenti és tanácsi rendelet (átdolgozás) 86. cikke az alábbiak szerint rendelkezik:
86. cikk (3) bekezdés – Likviditáskezelés
„Harmadik féllel szembeni kötelezettségvállalást megelőzően a számvitelért felelős tisztviselő meggyőződik a fizetési
kedvezményezett személyazonosságáról, megállapítja a fizetési kedvezményezett jogi személyiségét és fizetési adatait,
valamint beviszi azokat annak az uniós intézménynek a közös adatállományába, amelynek a nevében eljár.
A számvitelért felelős tisztviselő csak azt követően végezheti el a kifizetést, hogy a fizetési kedvezményezett jogi személyiségére
vonatkozó adatokat és annak fizetési adatait bevitték azon uniós intézmény közös adatállományába, amelynek a nevében a
számvitelért felelős tisztviselő eljár.
Az engedélyezésre jogosult tisztviselők tájékoztatják a számvitelért felelős tisztviselőt a fizetési kedvezményezett által velük
közölt, a jogi személyiség és a fizetési adatok bármely módosulásáról, és minden kifizetés engedélyezése előtt ellenőrzik, hogy
ezek az adatok érvényesek-e.”IT
GUIDA PER LA COMPILAZIONE DEL MODULO DI IDENTIFICAZIONE FINANZIARIA
Il modulo di identificazione finanziaria raccoglie i dati finanziari e giuridici essenziali necessari per il trattamento dei pagamenti e
la creazione del Suo conto nel sistema contabile del Parlamento europeo. Segua attentamente queste istruzioni per assicurarsi
di compilare il modulo in maniera completa e accurata.
Il modulo è in inglese (le traduzioni in tutte le lingue dell'UE sono riportate nelle pagine posteriori) e va compilato nella
lingua originale senza utilizzare caratteri speciali. La preghiamo inoltre di utilizzare solo caratteri latini e di assicurarsi
che le informazioni coincidano esattamente con quanto figura sul Suo documento di identità o sui documenti di
registrazione della società. Se il Suo nome o indirizzo è scritto in un alfabeto non latino, ad esempio cirillico o greco, La
preghiamo di utilizzare le regole di trascrizione standardizzate per convertirlo accuratamente in caratteri latini.
Sezione 1: Tipo di entità giuridica e numero di partita IVA
Tipo di entità giuridica
Indicare il tipo di entità che meglio descrive il Suo status giuridico.
• Entità giuridica con partita IVA: impresa o organizzazione registrata ai fini della riscossione e del pagamento
dell'imposta sul valore aggiunto (IVA) su beni o servizi – soggetto passivo IVA.
• Entità giuridica senza partita IVA: impresa o organismo pubblico che non è registrato ai fini dell'IVA e non è un
soggetto passivo IVA.
• Persona fisica: individuo che opera in modo indipendente o come imprenditore individuale.
• Gruppo di operatori economici SENZA personalità giuridica: un gruppo di operatori economici senza personalità
giuridica è gestito in modo diverso da un gruppo dotato di personalità giuridica. Mentre un gruppo con personalità
giuridica è trattato come un'entità giuridica a sé stante, distinta dai suoi membri, un gruppo senza personalità giuridica
deve nominare un responsabile che lo rappresenti nelle interazioni con il Parlamento europeo. Il responsabile deve
essere registrato nel sistema contabile del Parlamento europeo con tutti i dati necessari. Prima di registrare il gruppo,
è essenziale confermare che il responsabile esiste già nel sistema. In caso contrario è necessario compilare un modulo
di identificazione finanziaria supplementare con i dati del responsabile. Se il modulo di identificazione finanziaria
riguarda un gruppo senza personalità giuridica, occorre selezionare l'opzione "Entità giuridica senza partita IVA" e
compilare la sezione "Entità giuridica" con le informazioni relative al gruppo.
Numero di partita IVA
Per le entità registrate ai fini della riscossione dell'IVA, indicare il numero di partita IVA intracomunitario (compresi il codice
del paese e il numero), che può essere verificato nel sistema VIES di convalida del numero di partita IVA all'indirizzo
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Caso speciale di numero di partita IVA per le persone fisiche: Se una persona fisica ha un numero di partita IVA perché è
un libero professionista o un imprenditore individuale, occorre inserire il numero di partita IVA nell'apposito campo. Questo campo
è facoltativo e può essere lasciato vuoto, ma è disponibile se necessario.
Sezione 2: Informazioni relative all'entità giuridica
Indicare i dati relativi all'entità giuridica. L'entità giuridica è riconosciuta dalla legge con diritti e obblighi.
• Forma giuridica: specifica la struttura dell'entità giuridica, ad esempio società a responsabilità limitata, società di
persone, organizzazione senza scopo di lucro, organismo pubblico, ecc.
• Nome dell'organizzazione: la denominazione ufficiale registrata dell'entità che figura nel documento ufficiale allegato.
Sezione 3: Informazioni relative alla persona fisica (solo per soggetti individuali)
Se compila il presente modulo a titolo individuale, La preghiamo di indicare i Suoi dati personali:
• Nome: il Suo nome.
• Cognome: il Suo cognome.
Sezione 4: Indirizzo
indicare l'indirizzo registrato dell'entità o della persona fisica: via, numero, codice postale, città, paese, e-mail (facoltativo):
l'indirizzo di posta elettronica è utilizzato a fini di comunicazione. Non è un campo obbligatorio.
Sezione 5: Coordinate bancarie
Inserisca in questa sezione le Sue coordinate bancarie, quali specificate nel RIB o nell'estratto conto bancario allegato. Indichi i
dati relativi alla banca e al conto da utilizzare per le operazioni di pagamento.
• Nome della banca: nome ufficiale della banca o dell'istituto finanziario.
• Nome del titolare del conto: nome della persona o dell'entità titolare del conto bancario.
• IBAN: numero di conto bancario internazionale – identificativo standardizzato del conto per le operazioni internazionali.
• Codice SWIFT (BIC): codice unico di identificazione bancaria utilizzato per i bonifici elettronici internazionali.
• Valuta: valuta in cui è denominato il conto (ad esempio EUR, USD, ecc.).
• Numero di conto: se non dispone dell'IBAN, selezioni "Non ho un numero IBAN" per attivare questo campo e indicare
il numero di conto bancario.
• Altro codice identificativo bancario: questo campo permette di inserire coordinate bancarie aggiuntive necessarie
per registrare conti bancari al di fuori dell'UE, in particolare quando non si dispone di un IBAN.IT
Nota: se l'indirizzo del titolare del conto bancario è diverso dall'indirizzo principale dell'entità giuridica o della persona indicata
sopra, specifichi l'indirizzo del titolare del conto bancario.
Sezione 6: Invio del modulo e autorizzazione
Il rappresentante dell'entità giuridica deve compilare questa sezione:
• Ruolo (solo per le persone giuridiche): specifica la posizione o la funzione del rappresentante dell'entità giuridica
(ad esempio proprietario, direttore, responsabile delle vendite, ecc.).
• Data: data di compilazione e invio del modulo.
Come ultimo passo, confermi che tutte le informazioni fornite sono esatte e complete per garantire che i pagamenti
siano effettuati al beneficiario corretto. Dopo la conferma, i dati di questo campo saranno bloccati per impedire ulteriori
modifiche.
Sezione 7: Documenti richiesti
Alleghi i seguenti documenti per verificare le informazioni fornite e completare la presentazione del modulo. Per evitare ritardi nel
trattamento, si assicuri che tutte le informazioni contenute nel modulo corrispondano a quelle che figurano nei Suoi documenti
ufficiali.
• Prova delle informazioni bancarie
documento che certifica la Sua identità bancaria: RIB o copia dell'estratto conto bancario (datato negli ultimi sei mesi)
indicante il nome del titolare del conto, il numero di conto/IBAN, il codice BIC/SWIFT e il nome della banca. È possibile
occultare altre informazioni sensibili.
• Documenti di identificazione
Per le persone fisiche, una copia della carta d'identità o del passaporto.
Per le entità, una copia di un documento ufficiale recante il nome, il numero di partita IVA e l'indirizzo della società (ad
esempio, atto costitutivo, certificato di iscrizione nel registro delle imprese, estratto del registro delle imprese, certificato
di registrazione fiscale/IVA, estratto di un annuario pubblico o ufficiale).
Disposizioni regolamentari
L'articolo 86 del regolamento (UE, Euratom) 2024/2509 del Parlamento europeo e del Consiglio, del 23 settembre 2024, che
stabilisce le regole finanziarie applicabili al bilancio generale dell'Unione (rifusione) stabilisce quanto segue:
Articolo 86, paragrafo 3 – Gestione della tesoreria
"Prima di assumere un impegno nei confronti di terzi, l’ordinatore conferma l’identità del beneficiario, acquisisce i dati relativi alla
personalità giuridica e le coordinate di pagamento del beneficiario e li registra nello schedario comune tenuto dall’istituzione
dell’Unione di cui il contabile è responsabile.
Il contabile può effettuare pagamenti soltanto se i dati relativi alla personalità giuridica e le coordinate di pagamento del
beneficiario sono già stati registrati nello schedario comune tenuto dall'istituzione dell’Unione di cui il contabile è responsabile.
Gli ordinatori comunicano al contabile ogni variazione dei dati relativi alla personalità giuridica e delle coordinate di pagamento
loro trasmessi dal beneficiario e verificano la validità di tali dati prima di emettere qualsiasi ordine di pagamento."LT
FINANSINIŲ REKVIZITŲ FORMOS PILDYMO ATMINTINĖ
Finansinių rekvizitų formoje nurodomi pagrindiniai finansiniai ir juridiniai duomenys, reikalingi mokėjimams tvarkyti ir jūsų paskyrai
Europos Parlamento (EP) apskaitos sistemoje sukurti. Kad forma būtų tiksliai užpildyta ir tinkamai nusiųsta, griežtai laikykitės šių
nurodymų.
Forma parengta anglų kalba (vertimai į visas ES kalbas pateikiami paskutiniuose puslapiuose), tačiau ją pildykite
originalo kalba nenaudodami specialių ženklų. Taip pat šią formą pildykite tik lotyniškais rašmenimis, įsitikindami, kad
informacija tiksliai atitinka jūsų asmens tapatybės dokumente arba įmonės registracijos dokumentuose nurodytą
informaciją. Jei dokumentuose jūsų vardas ir pavardė (pavadinimas) arba adresas nurodyti ne lotyniškais, o, pvz.,
kiriliškais arba graikiškais rašmenimis, juos tiksliai perrašykite lotyniškais rašmenimis pagal standartizuotas
transkripcijos taisykles.
1 skiltis. Teisės subjekto rūšis ir PVM mokėtojo kodas
Teisės subjekto rūšis
Nurodykite subjekto, kuris geriausiai apibūdina jūsų teisinį statusą, rūšį.
• Juridinis asmuo PVM mokėtojas – įmonė arba organizacija, kuri yra įregistruota PVM mokėtoja ir kuriai taikoma
prievolė rinkti ir mokėti pridėtinės vertės mokestį (PVM) už prekes ar paslaugas.
• Juridinis asmuo ne PVM mokėtojas – įmonė arba viešoji organizacija, kuri nėra įregistruota PVM mokėtoja ir kuriai
netaikoma PVM mokėtojui tenkanti prievolė.
• Fizinis asmuo – individualus asmuo, kuris veiklą vykdo savarankiškai arba kaip individualus verslininkas.
• Juridinio asmens statuso NETURINTI ekonominės veiklos vykdytojų grupė. Juridinio asmens statuso neturinti
ekonominės veiklos vykdytojų grupė valdoma kitaip nei grupė, kuri turi juridinio asmens statusą. Juridinio asmens
statusą turinti grupė laikoma atskiru nuo jos narių juridiniu asmeniu, o juridinio asmens statuso neturinti grupė privalo
skirti vadovą, kuris jai atstovautų palaikant ryšius su EP. Vadovas turi būti įregistruotas EP apskaitos sistemoje,
nurodant visą reikiamą informaciją. Prieš registruojant grupę, labai svarbu patvirtinti, kad vadovas jau yra įregistruotas
sistemoje. Jei tai nėra padaryta, turi būti užpildyta papildoma finansinių rekvizitų forma pateikiant informaciją apie
vadovą. Kai finansinių rekvizitų forma yra skirta juridinio asmens statuso neturinčiai grupei, turi būti pasirinktas
variantas „Juridinis asmuo ne PVM mokėtojas“, o skiltis apie juridinį asmenį turėtų būti užpildyta nurodant informaciją
apie grupę.
PVM mokėtojo kodas
Subjektų, registruotų PVM rinkimo tikslais, atveju įrašykite ES vidaus PVM mokėtojo kodą (įskaitant šalies kodą ir numerį); jį
galima pasitikrinti VIES PVM mokėtojo kodo patvirtinimo sistemoje adresu https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-
validation.
Specialus fizinių asmenų PVM mokėtojų atvejis. Jei fizinis asmuo turi PVM mokėtojo kodą, nes jis yra laisvai samdomas
darbuotojas arba individualus verslininkas, PVM mokėtojo kodą nurodykite atitinkamame PVM laukelyje. Šis laukelis nėra
privalomas ir gali būti paliktas tuščias, tačiau prireikus jį galima užpildyti.
2 skiltis. Informacija apie juridinį asmenį
Pateikite išsamią informaciją apie juridinį asmenį. Juridinis asmuo yra pripažįstamas pagal įstatymą kaip turintis teises ir pareigas.
• Teisinė forma. Turi būti nurodoma juridinio asmens rūšis, pvz., ribotos atsakomybės bendrovė, ūkinė bendrija, ne
pelno organizacija, viešoji įstaiga ir kt.
• Organizacijos pavadinimas. Tai oficialus registruotas subjekto pavadinimas, nurodytas pridedamame oficialiame
dokumente.
3 skiltis. Informacija apie fizinį asmenį (tik fizinių asmenų atveju)
Jei šią formą pildote kaip fizinis asmuo, pateikite savo asmens duomenis:
• Vardas – jūsų vardas;
• Pavardė – jūsų pavardė.
4 skiltis. Adresas
Įrašykite subjekto arba individualaus asmens registracijos adreso duomenis: gatvę, namo numerį, pašto kodą, miestą, šalį.
E.pašto adresas (nurodyti neprivaloma) – elektroninio pašto adresas, skirtas ryšiams palaikyti. E. pašto laukelio pildyti
neprivaloma.
5 skiltis. Banko sąskaitos duomenys
Šioje skiltyje įrašykite savo banko sąskaitos duomenis, kaip nurodyta pridedamame RIB / banko sąskaitos išraše – pateikite
išsamią informaciją apie banką ir mokėjimo operacijoms naudotiną sąskaitą.
• Banko pavadinimas – oficialus banko arba finansų įstaigos pavadinimas.
• Sąskaitos turėtojo vardas ir pavardė arba pavadinimas – asmens arba subjekto, kuris yra banko sąskaitos
turėtojas, vardas ir pavardė arba pavadinimas.
• IBAN – tarptautinis banko sąskaitos numeris, t. y. standartizuotas sąskaitos identifikatorius, naudojamas tarptautiniams
sandoriams.
• SWIFT (BIC) – unikalus banko identifikavimo kodas, naudojamas tarptautiniams elektroniniams pervedimams.LT
• Valiuta – sąskaitos valiuta (pvz., EUR, USD ir kt.).
• Sąskaitos numeris. Jei IBAN nėra, pažymėkite langelį „I do not have an IBAN number“ („Neturiu IBAN“), kad
galėtumėte aktyvuoti šį laukelį ir nurodyti banko sąskaitos numerį.
• Kitas banko identifikatorius. Šiame laukelyje galima įrašyti papildomus banko duomenis, reikalingus ne ES banko
sąskaitoms registruoti, ypač kai IBAN nėra.
Pastaba. Jei banko sąskaitos turėtojo adresas skiriasi nuo pirmiau nurodyto juridinio arba fizinio asmens pagrindinio adreso,
nurodykite banko sąskaitos turėtojo adresą.
6 skiltis. Formos pateikimas ir leidimas
Šią skiltį turi užpildyti juridinio asmens atstovas:
• Funkcijos (tik juridinių asmenų atveju). Turi būti nurodomos juridinio asmens atstovo pareigos arba funkcijos (pvz.,
savininkas, direktorius, pardavimo direktorius ir kt.).
• Data – formos užpildymo ir pateikimo data.
Tam, kad mokėjimai būtų atliekami tam gavėjui, kuriam jie skirti, pabaigoje patvirtinkite, jog visa pateikta informacija
yra tiksli ir išsami. Patvirtinus šį laukelį, visi duomenys užrakinami ir tolesnių pakeitimų atlikti nebegalima.
7 skiltis. Reikiami dokumentai
Pridėkite toliau nurodytus dokumentus, kad būtų galima patikrinti formoje pateikiamą informaciją, ir užbaikite formos pateikimo
procedūrą. Kad būtų išvengta vėlavimo tvarkant formą, patikrinkite, ar visa formoje pateikta informacija atitinka jūsų oficialiuose
dokumentuose nurodytus duomenis.
• Banko sąskaitos duomenų patvirtinamasis dokumentas
Dokumentas, patvirtinantis jūsų banko sąskaitos rekvizitus: RIB arba banko sąskaitos išrašo (ne senesnio nei šešių
mėnesių), kuriame nurodytas sąskaitos turėtojo vardas ir pavardė arba pavadinimas, sąskaitos numeris / IBAN,
BIC / SWIFT kodas ir banko pavadinimas, kopija. Kitą neskelbtiną informaciją galite pašalinti.
• Identifikavimo dokumentai
Fizinių asmenų atveju – jūsų asmens tapatybės kortelės arba paso kopija.
Juridinių asmenų atveju – oficialaus dokumento, kuriame nurodytas įmonės pavadinimas, PVM mokėtojo kodas ir
adresas (pvz., įmonės steigimo liudijimo, įmonės registravimo pažymėjimo, išrašo iš įmonių registro, PVM / mokesčių
mokėtojo registracijos pažymėjimo, išrašo iš viešo arba oficialaus katalogo), kopija.
Teisės aktų nuostatos
2024 m. rugsėjo 23 d. Europos Parlamento ir Tarybos reglamento (ES, Euratomas) 2024/2509 dėl Sąjungos bendrajam
biudžetui taikomų finansinių taisyklių (nauja redakcija) 86 straipsnyje įtvirtintos šios nuostatos:
86 straipsnio (Iždo valdymas) 3 dalis
„Prieš prisiimdamas įsipareigojimą trečiosios šalies atžvilgiu, leidimus suteikiantis pareigūnas patvirtina gavėjo tapatybę, nustato
gavėjų teisės subjekto ir mokėjimo duomenis ir įtraukia juos į bendrą Sąjungos institucijos, už kurią atsakingas apskaitos
pareigūnas, bylą.
Apskaitos pareigūnas mokėjimus gali atlikti tik tuo atveju, jeigu Sąjungos institucija, už kurią atsakingas apskaitos pareigūnas,
anksčiau į bendrą bylą yra įtraukusi gavėjo teisės subjekto ir mokėjimo duomenis.
Leidimus suteikiantys pareigūnai informuoja apskaitos pareigūną apie bet kokius teisės subjekto ir mokėjimo duomenų
pasikeitimus, apie kuriuos jiems praneša gavėjas, ir prieš patvirtindami mokėjimą patikrina tų duomenų galiojimą.“LV
NORĀDĪJUMI FINANŠU INDENTIFIKĀCIJAS VEIDLAPAS AIZPILDIŠANAI
Ar finanšu identifikācijas veidlapas (FIV) palīdzību iegūst svarīgāko finanšu un juridisko informāciju, kas nepieciešama
maksājumu apstrādei un jūsu konta izveidei Eiropas Parlamenta (EP) grāmatvedības sistēmā. Rūpīgi sekojiet šiem
norādījumiem, lai nodrošinātu, ka tiek iesniegta pilnīgi un precīzi aizpildīta veidlapa.
Veidlapa ir angļu valodā (tās tulkojums visās oficiālajās ES valodās ir sniegts lapas otrā pusē), taču aizpildiet to
oriģinālvalodā, nelietojot diakritiskās zīmes. Aizpildot šo veidlapu, lūdzu, lietojiet tikai latīņu alfabēta burtus, nodrošinot
to, ka sniegtā informācija precīzi atbilst tai, kas minēta jūsu ID dokumentā vai uzņēmuma reģistrācijas dokumentos. Ja
jūsu vārds vai adrese oriģinālā tiek rakstīts, izmantojot burtus, kas nav latīņu alfabēta burti, piemēram, kiriliskā vai
grieķu alfabēta burtus, lūdzu, izmantojiet standartizētos transkripcijas noteikumus, lai to precīzi atveidotu ar latīņu
alfabēta burtiem.
1.iedaļa. Tiesību subjekta veids un PVN maksātāja numurs
Tiesību subjekta veids
Norādiet tiesību subjekta veidu, kas vislabāk raksturo jūsu juridisko statusu.
• Juridiska persona ar PVN: attiecas uz uzņēmumu vai organizāciju, kas ir reģistrēta, lai iekasētu un maksātu
pievienotās vērtības nodokli (PVN) par precēm vai pakalpojumiem, — PVN maksātājs.
• Juridiska persona bez PVN: attiecas uz uzņēmumu vai publisku organizāciju, kas nav reģistrēta PVN maksāšanas
nolūkā un nav PVN maksātājs.
• Fiziska persona: Indivīds, kas darbojas neatkarīgi vai kā individuāls tirgotājs.
• Ekonomikas dalībnieku grupa BEZ tiesību subjekta: ekonomikas dalībnieku grupa bez tiesību subjekta tiek
pārvaldīta savādāk nekā grupa, kurā ir tiesību subjekts. Grupu, kurā ir tiesību subjekts, uzskata par atsevišķu tiesību
subjektu, kas ir nošķirts no tās locekļiem, savukārt grupai bez tiesību subjekta ir jāieceļ vadītājs, kas to pārstāvēs
attiecībās ar EP. Vadītājam jābūt reģistrētam EP grāmatvedības sistēmā, norādot visu nepieciešamo informāciju. Pirms
šādas grupas reģistrēšanas ir svarīgi apstiprināt, ka vadītājs jau ir atrodams sistēmā. Ja tā nav, ir jāaizpilda papildu
finanšu identifikācijas veidlapa (FIV), kurā norāda informāciju par vadītāju. Ja FIV attiecas uz grupu bez tiesību
subjekta, ir jāizvēlas variants “Tiesību subjekts bez PVN” un jāaizpilda Tiesību subjekta iedaļa, lai iekļautu grupas
informāciju.
PVN maksātāja numurs
Attiecībā uz vienībām, kuras reģistrētas PVN iekasēšanai, lūdzu, ievadiet Kopienas iekšienē izmantoto ES PVN maksātāja
numuru (tostarp valsts kodu un numuru), ko iespējams pārbaudīt VIES PVN maksātāja numura validācijas sistēmā šādā
tīmekļa vietnē:https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Īpašs gadījums — fiziska persona ar PVN maksātāja numuru: ja fiziskai personai ir PVN maksātāja numurs, tāpēc ka tā ir
ārštata darbinieks vai individuālais tirgotājs, pieejamajā PVN lauciņā, lūdzu, norādiet PVN maksātāja numuru. Šis lauciņš ir
fakultatīvs: to var atstāt tukšu, bet vajadzības gadījumā tas ir pieejams.
2.iedaļa. Informācija par tiesību subjektu
Lūdzu, sniedziet informāciju par tiesību subjektu. Tiesību subjekts un tā tiesības un pienākumi ir atzīti ar likumu.
• Juridiskā forma: precizē tiesību subjekta, struktūru, piemēram, sabiedrība ar ierobežotu atbildību, pilnsabiedrība,
bezpeļņa organizācija, publiska struktūra utt.
• Organizācijas nosaukums: vienības oficiālais reģistrētais nosaukums, kā norādīts pievienotajā oficiālajā dokumentā.
3.iedaļa. Informācija par fizisko personu (attiecas tikai uz indivīdiem)
Ja aizpildāt šo veidlapu kā indivīds, lūdzu, sniedziet šādus personas datus:
• vārds: jūsu vārds,
• uzvārds: jūsu uzvārds.
4.iedaļa. Adrese
Ievadiet vienības vai indivīda reģistrēto adresi: ielas nosaukums, mājas numurs, pasta indekss, pilsēta, valsts. E-pasta
adrese (fakultatīva): elektroniskā pasta adrese saziņai. E-pasta adreses lauciņš nav obligāti aizpildāms.
5.iedaļa. Informācija par banku
Aizpildiet šo iedaļu ar informāciju par jūsu bankas kontu, kas norādīta pievienotajā RIB/ bankas konta izrakstā: sniedziet
informāciju par banku un kontu, kas jāizmanto maksājuma darījumiem.
• Bankas nosaukums: bankas vai finanšu iestādes oficiālais nosaukums.
• Konta turētāja vārds/nosaukums: tās personas vārds vai vienības nosaukums, kurai bankas konts pieder.
• IBAN: starptautiskais bankas konta numurs — standartizēts konta identifikators, ko izmanto starptautiskiem
darījumiem.
• SWIFT kods (BIC): unikāls bankas identifikācijas kods, ko izmanto starptautiskiem elektroniskiem pārvedumiem.
• Valūta: valūta, kurā konts ir denominēts (piemēram, EUR, USD u. c.).
• Konta numurs: ja IBAN nav pieejams, atzīmējiet “Man nav IBAN numura”, lai šis lauciņš kļūtu aktīvs un jūs varētu
norādīt bankas konta numuru.
• Cits bankas identifikators: šis lauciņš ļauj iekļaut papildu informāciju par banku, kas nepieciešama, lai reģistrētu
ārpus ES esošus bankas kontus, jo īpaši gadījumos, kad nav pieejams IBAN.LV
Piezīme: ja bankas konta turētāja adrese atšķiras no iepriekš norādītās tiesību subjekta / personas galvenās adreses, lūdzu,
norādiet bankas konta turētāja adresi.
6. iedaļa. Veidlapas iesniegšana un apstiprināšana
Šī iedaļa ir jāaizpilda tiesību subjekta pārstāvim, norādot šādu informāciju:
• loma (tikai attiecībā uz tiesību subjektiem): precizē tiesību subjekta pārstāvja (piemēram, īpašnieka, direktora,
tirdzniecības vadītāja utt.) amatu vai amatpienākumu.
• datums: veidlapas aizpildīšanas un iesniegšanas datums.
Visbeidzot, lūdzu, apstipriniet, ka visa sniegtā informācija ir precīza un pilnīga, lai nodrošinātu, ka maksājumi tiek veikti
pareizajam saņēmējam. Pēc apstiprināšanas šis lauks bloķē datus, lai novērstu jebkādas turpmākas izmaiņas.
7. sadaļa. Prasītie dokumenti
Lai varētu pārbaudīt veidlapā sniegto informāciju un pabeigt veidlapas iesniegšanas procedūru, lūdzu, pievienojiet turpmāk
minētos dokumentus. Lai izvairītos no apstrādes aizkavēšanās, pārliecinieties, ka visa veidlapā sniegtā informācija atbilst
informācijai turpmāk minētajos jūsu oficiālajos dokumentos.
• Pierādījums par bankas informāciju
Jūsu bankas identitāti apliecinošs dokuments: RIB vai bankas konta izraksta kopija (ne vecāka par sešiem mēnešiem),
kurā norādīts konta turētāja vārds/nosaukums, konta numurs/IBAN, BIC/SWIFT kods un bankas nosaukums. Jūs varat
padarīt nesalasāmu citu sensitīvu informāciju.
• Identifikācijas dokumenti
Fiziskām personām: personas apliecības vai pases kopija.
Vienībām: tāda oficiāla dokumenta kopija, kurā norādīts uzņēmuma nosaukums, PVN maksātāja numurs un adrese
(piemēram, inkorporācijas apliecība, uzņēmuma reģistrācijas apliecība, izraksts no komercreģistra, PVN/nodokļu
reģistrācijas apliecība, izraksts no valdības vai oficiāla reģistra).
Regulējošie noteikumi
Eiropas Parlamenta un Padomes 2024. gada 23. septembra Regulas (ES, Euratom) 2024/2509 par finanšu noteikumiem, ko
piemēro Savienības vispārējam budžetam (pārstrādāta redakcija) 86. pants paredz šādus noteikumus:
86. panta (finanšu līdzekļu pārvaldība) 3. punkts
“Pirms saistību uzņemšanās pret kādu trešo personu kredītrīkotājs pārliecinās par saņēmēja identitāti, noskaidro saņēmēja
juridisko statusu un maksājumu datus un tos iekļauj tās Savienības iestādes kopējā datnē, par kuru viņš atbild.
Grāmatvedis var veikt maksājumus vienīgi tad, ja Savienības iestāde, par kuru grāmatvedis atbild, pirms tam ir iekļāvusi saņēmēja
juridiskos un maksājumu datus kopējā datnē.
Kredītrīkotāji informē grāmatvedi par visām tiesību subjekta un maksājumu datu izmaiņām, par kurām tiem paziņojis saņēmējs,
un pirms maksājumu apstiprināšanas pārbauda, vai minētie dati ir derīgi.”MT
GWIDA BIEX TIMLA L-FORMOLA TA’ IDENTIFIKAZZJONI FINANZJARJA
Il-Formola ta’ Identifikazzjoni Finanzjarja (FIF) tiġbor id-dettalji finanzjarji u legali essenzjali meħtieġa biex jiġi proċessat il-ħlas u
biex jiġi stabbilit il-kont tiegħek fis-sistema kontabilistika tal-Parlament Ewropew (PE). Segwi dawn l-istruzzjonijiet bir-reqqa biex
tiżgura sottomissjoni kompluta u preċiża tal-formola.
Il-formola hija bl-Ingliż (traduzzjonijiet għal-lingwi kollha tal-UE pprovduti fuq il-paġni ta’ wara), iżda imliha bil-lingwa
oriġinali mingħajr karattri speċjali. Jekk jogħġbok imla wkoll din il-formola billi tuża biss karattri Latini, filwaqt li tiżgura
li l-informazzjoni taqbel eżattament ma’ kif tidher fid-dokumenti tal-ID jew tar-reġistrazzjoni tal-kumpanija tiegħek. Jekk
ismek jew l-indirizz tiegħek jinkitbu oriġinarjament b’alfabett mhux Latin, bħaċ-Ċirilliku jew il-Grieg, jekk jogħġbok uża
regoli ta’ traskrizzjoni standardizzati biex taqlibhom b’mod preċiż f’karattri Latini.
Taqsima 1: Tip ta’ Entità Legali u Numru tal-VAT
Tip ta’ Entità Legali
Indika t-tip ta’ entità li tiddeskrivi l-istatus legali tiegħek bl-aħjar mod.
• Entità Legali bil-VAT: Tirreferi għal negozju jew organizzazzjoni li huma rreġistrati biex jiġbru u jħallsu Taxxa fuq il-
Valur Miżjud (VAT) fuq oġġetti jew servizzi - pagatur tal-VAT.
• Entità Legali Mingħajr VAT: Tirreferi għal negozju jew organizzazzjoni pubblika, li mhumiex irreġistrati għall-VAT u
mhumiex pagaturi tal-VAT.
• Persuna Fiżika: Persuna individwali li topera b’mod indipendenti jew bħala kummerċjant waħdieni.
• Grupp ta’ Operaturi Ekonomiċi MINGĦAJR Entità Legali: Grupp ta’ operaturi ekonomiċi mingħajr entità legali huwa
ġestit b’mod differenti minn grupp li għandu entità legali. Filwaqt li grupp b’entità legali jiġi ttrattat bħala entità legali
separata mill-membri tiegħu, grupp mingħajr entità legali jrid jaħtar mexxej biex jirrappreżentah f’interazzjonijiet mal-
PE. Il-mexxej irid ikun irreġistrat fis-sistema kontabilistika tal-PE bid-dettalji kollha meħtieġa. Qabel ma jiġi rreġistrat il-
grupp, huwa essenzjali li jiġi kkonfermat li l-mexxej diġà jeżisti fis-sistema. Jekk le, għandha timtela Formola ta’
Identifikazzjoni Finanzjarja (FIF) addizzjonali bl-informazzjoni tal-mexxej. Meta l-FIF tkun għall-grupp mingħajr entità
legali, trid tintgħażel l-għażla “Entità Legali mingħajr VAT”, u t-Taqsima tal-Entità Legali għandha timtela biex tinkludi l-
informazzjoni tal-grupp.
Numru tal-VAT
Għall-entitajiet irreġistrati biex jiġbru l-VAT, jekk jogħġbok daħħal in-numru tal-VAT Intra-Komunitarju tal-UE (inkluż il-kodiċi u
n-numru tal-pajjiż), li jista’ jiġi vverifikat fis-sistema ta’ validazzjoni tan-numru tal-VAT VIES permezz ta’
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Każ Speċjali ta’ Numru tal-VAT għal Persuni Fiżiċi: Jekk persuna fiżika jkollha numru tal-VAT minħabba li taħdem għal rasha
jew tkun kummerċjant waħdieni, jekk jogħġbok inkludi n-numru tal-VAT fil-kaxxa tal-VAT disponibbli. Din il-kaxxa hija fakultattiva
utista’ titħalla vojta, iżda hija disponibbli f’każ ta’ bżonn.
Taqsima 2: Informazzjoni ta’ Entità Legali
Jekk jogħġbok, ipprovdi dettalji dwar l-entità legali. L-Entità Legali hija rikonoxxuta mil-liġi bi drittijiet u obbligi.
• Forma Legali: Tispeċifika l-istruttura tal-entità legali, bħal kumpanija b’responsabbiltà limitata, jew sħubija, jew
organizzazzjoni mingħajr skop ta’ qligħ, korp pubbliku, eċċ.
• Isem tal-Organizzazzjoni: L-isem uffiċjali, irreġistrat tal-entità kif speċifikat fid-dokument uffiċjali mehmuż.
Taqsima 3: Informazzjoni dwar il-Persuna Fiżika (għal individwi biss)
Jekk qed timla din il-formola bħala individwu, jekk jogħġbok ipprovdi d-dettalji personali tiegħek:
• Isem: Ismek.
• Kunjom: Kunjomok.
Taqsima 4: Indirizz
Daħħal id-dettalji tal-indirizz irreġistrat għall-entità jew għall-individwu: it-triq, in-numru tal-bieb, il-kodiċi postali, il-lokalità, il-
pajjiż. Email (fakultattiv): L-indirizz tal-posta elettronika għal finijiet ta’ komunikazzjoni. Il-kaxxa tal-email mhijiex kaxxa
obbligatorja.
Taqsima 5: Informazzjoni dwar il-Bank
Imla din it-taqsima bid-dettalji tal-kont tal-bank tiegħek, kif speċifikat fir-RIB/rendikont bankarju mehmuż: Ipprovdi dettalji dwar il-
bank u l-kont li għandu jintuża għal tranżazzjonijiet ta’ pagament.
• Isem il-Bank: l-isem uffiċjali tal-bank jew tal-istituzzjoni finanzjarja.
• Isem id-Detentur tal-Kont: l-isem tal-persuna jew tal-entità li hija s-sid tal-kont bankarju.
• IBAN: in-Numru Internazzjonali tal-Kont Bankarju, identifikatur tal-kont standardizzat użat għal tranżazzjonijiet
internazzjonali.
• Kodiċi SWIFT (BIC): kodiċi uniku ta’ identifikazzjoni tal-bank użat għal trasferimenti elettroniċi internazzjonali.
• Munita: il-munita li fiha huwa denominat il-kont (eż. EUR, USD, eċċ.).
• Numru tal-kont: jekk ma jkun disponibbli l-ebda IBAN, immarka “M’għandix numru IBAN”, biex tinxtegħel din il-kaxxa
upprovdi n-numru tal-kont tal-bank.
• Identifikatur Ieħor tal-Bank: din il-kaxxa tippermetti l-inklużjoni ta’ dettalji bankarji addizzjonali meħtieġa għar-
reġistrazzjoni ta’ kontijiet bankarji mhux tal-UE, b’mod partikolari meta l-IBAN ma jkunx disponibbli.MT
Nota: Jekk l-indirizz tad-detentur tal-kont bankarju jkun differenti mill-indirizz ewlieni tal-entità/persuna legali pprovduta hawn fuq,
jekk jogħġbok speċifika l-indirizz tad-detentur tal-kont bankarju.
Taqsima 6: Formola għas-Sottomissjoni u l-Awtorizzazzjoni
Ir-rappreżentant tal-Entità Legali jrid jimla din it-taqsima:
• Rwol (għall-Entitajiet Legali biss): Tispeċifika l-pożizzjoni jew il-funzjoni tar-rappreżentant tal-entità legali (eż. is-sid,
id-direttur, il-maniġer tal-bejgħ, eċċ.).
• Data: id-data tat-tlestija u s-sottomissjoni tal-formola.
Bħala l-aħħar pass, jekk jogħġbok ivvalida li l-informazzjoni kollha pprovduta hija preċiża u kompluta biex tiżgura li l-
pagamenti jsiru lill-benefiċjarju korrett. Ladarba tiġi vvalidata, din il-kaxxa tillokkja d-data sabiex tipprevjeni kwalunkwe
bidla ulterjuri.
Taqsima 7: Dokumenti Meħtieġa
Jekk jogħġbok ehmeż id-dokumenti li ġejjin biex tivverifika l-informazzjoni pprovduta fil-formola u imla s-sottomissjoni tiegħek.
Kun ċert li l-informazzjoni kollha fil-formola taqbel mad-dettalji fid-dokumenti uffiċjali tiegħek sabiex tevita dewmien fl-ipproċessar:
• Prova ta’ Informazzjoni Bankarja
Dokument li jiċċertifika l-identità bankarja tiegħek: RIB jew kopja tar-rendikont bankarju (bid-data fl-aħħar sitt xhur) li
turi l-isem tad-detentur tal-kont, in-numru tal-kont/l-IBAN, il-kodiċi BIC/SWIFT, u l-isem tal-bank. Tista’ tħassar
informazzjoni sensittiva oħra.
• Dokumenti ta’ Identifikazzjoni
Għall-persuni fiżiċi, kopja tal-karta tal-identità jew tal-passaport tiegħek;
Għall-entitajiet, kopja ta’ dokument uffiċjali bl-isem, il-VAT u l-indirizz tal-kumpanija (eż., ċertifikat ta’ Inkorporazzjoni,
Ċertifikat ta’ Reġistrazzjoni tan-Negozju, Estratt mir-Reġistru Kummerċjali, Ċertifikat ta’ Reġistrazzjoni tal-VAT/tat-
Taxxa; Estratt minn Direttorju tal-Gvern jew Uffiċjali).
Dispożizzjonijiet regolatorji
L-Artikolu 86 tar-Regolament (UE, Euratom) 2024/2509 tal-Parlament Ewropew u tal-Kunsill tat-23 ta’ Settembru 2024 dwar ir-
regoli finanzjarji applikabbli għall-baġit ġenerali tal-Unjoni (riformulazzjoni) jiddikjara d-dispożizzjonijiet li ġejjin:
L-Artikolu 86.3 – Amministrazzjoni tat-Teżorerija
“Qabel ma jassumi impenn ma’ parti terza, l-uffiċjal tal-awtorizzazzjoni għandu jikkonferma l-identità tal-benefiċjarju, jistabbilixxi
l-entità legali u d-dettalji tal-pagament tal-benefiċjarju u jdaħħalhom fil-fajl komuni tal-istituzzjoni tal-Unjoni li għalih l-uffiċjal tal-
kontabbiltà jkun responsabbli.
L-uffiċjal tal-kontabbiltà jista’ jagħmel pagamenti biss jekk l-ewwel l-entità legali u d-dettalji tal-pagament tal-benefiċjarju jkunu
ddaħħlu f’fajl komuni mill-istituzzjoni tal-Unjoni li għaliha jkun responsabbli l-uffiċjal tal-awtorizzazzjoni.
L-uffiċjali tal-awtorizzazzjoni għandhom jinformaw lill-uffiċjal tal-kontabbiltà dwar kwalunkwe bidla fl-entità legali u fid-dettalji tal-
pagament ikkomunikati lilhom mill-benefiċjarju u għandhom jiċċekkjaw li dawk id-dettalji jkunu għadhom validi qabel ma
jawtorizzaw xi pagament.”NL
HANDLEIDING VOOR HET INVULLEN VAN HET FORMULIER FINANCIËLE IDENTIFICATIEGEGEVENS
Met het formulier financiële identificatiegegevens (FIF) worden belangrijke financiële en juridische gegevens verzameld die nodig
zijn voor de verwerking van betalingen en het opzetten van uw rekening binnen het boekhoudsysteem van het Europees
Parlement (EP). Volg deze instructies zorgvuldig, zodat u de formulieren volledig en accuraat kunt indienen.
Het formulier is opgesteld in het Engels (vertalingen in alle EU-talen op de achterzijden), maar u kunt het in de
oorspronkelijke taal invullen. Gebruik daarbij geen speciale tekens. Het formulier moet ingevuld worden in Latijns
schrift, zodat de informatie exact overeenkomt met die op uw identiteitsbewijs of bedrijfsregistratiedocument. Als uw
naam of adres oorspronkelijk is geschreven in een niet-Latijns alfabet, zoals Cyrillisch of Grieks, gebruik dan
gestandaardiseerde transcriptieregels om het correct om te zetten in Latijns schrift.
Sectie 1: Soort juridische entiteit en btw-nummer
Soort juridische entiteit
Vermeld het soort entiteit dat uw juridische status het best beschrijft.
• Btw-plichtige juridische entiteit: Verwijst naar een bedrijf dat of organisatie die geregistreerd is om belasting over
de toegevoegde waarde (btw) op goederen of diensten te innen en af te dragen.
• Niet btw-plichtige juridische entiteit: Verwijst naar een bedrijf dat of overheidsorganisatie die niet voor de btw is
geregistreerd en geen btw-plichtige entiteit is.
• Natuurlijke persoon: Een persoon die zelfstandig werkzaam is of een eenmanszaak heeft.
• Groep marktdeelnemers ZONDER juridische entiteit: Een combinatie van ondernemers zonder juridische entiteit
wordt anders beheerd dan een combinatie met een juridische entiteit. Terwijl een combinatie met een juridische entiteit
wordt behandeld als een afzonderlijke juridische entiteit die losstaat van haar leden, moet een combinatie zonder
juridische entiteit een woordvoerder aanwijzen om haar te vertegenwoordigen bij de contacten met het EP. Deze
woordvoerder moet met alle nodige gegevens in het boekhoudsysteem van het EP worden geregistreerd. Voordat de
combinatie wordt geregistreerd, is het van essentieel belang te bevestigen dat de woordvoerder al in het systeem is
opgenomen. Als dat niet het geval is, dan moet een aanvullend formulier financiële identificatiegegevens (FIF) worden
ingevuld met de gegevens van de woordvoerder. Wanneer het FIF betrekking heeft op de combinatie zonder juridische
entiteit, moet de optie “Niet btw-plichtige juridische entiteit” worden gekozen en moet de informatie met betrekking tot
de combinatie worden ingevuld in de sectie Juridische entiteit.
Btw-nummer
Voor entiteiten die voor de btw zijn geregistreerd, moet het intracommunautair btw-nummer worden ingevuld (inclusief de
landcode en het landennummer), dat kan worden geverifieerd in het systeem voor de validering van btw-nummers van het
VIES, via https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Bijzonder geval van btw-nummer voor natuurlijke personen: Als een natuurlijke persoon een btw-nummer heeft omdat hij
een freelancer is of een eenmanszaak heeft, moet het btw-nummer worden ingevuld in het beschikbare btw-veld. Dit veld is
facultatief en kan leeg blijven, maar is beschikbaar als dat nodig is.
Sectie 2: Informatie over de juridische entiteit
Geef nadere gegevens over de juridische entiteit. Juridische entiteit wordt bij wet erkend en heeft de bijbehorende rechten en
plichten.
• Rechtsvorm: Specificeer de structuur van de juridische entiteit, zoals een vennootschap met beperkte
aansprakelijkheid, een partnerschap, een non-profitorganisatie, een overheidsinstantie enz.
• Naam organisatie: De officiële, geregistreerde naam van de entiteit zoals vermeld in bijgevoegd officieel document.
Sectie 3: Informatie over de natuurlijke persoon (alleen voor individuele personen)
Indien u dit formulier als individu invult, moet u uw persoonsgegevens verstrekken:
• Voornaam: Voornaam
• Achternaam: Uw achternaam
Sectie 4: Adres
Vul de geregistreerde adresgegevens van de entiteit of persoon in: straat, huisnummer, postcode, plaats, land. E-mail
(facultatief): Het e-mailadres voor communicatiedoeleinden. Het e-mailadres is geen verplicht veld.
Sectie 5: Bankgegevens
Vul in deze rubriek uw bankrekeninggegevens in, zoals gespecificeerd in het bijgevoegde RIB/bankafschrift: Verstrek nadere
gegevens over de voor betalingstransacties te gebruiken bank en rekening.
• Naam van de bank: de officiële naam van de bank of financiële instelling.
• Naam rekeninghouder: de naam van de persoon of entiteit die houder is van de bankrekening.
• IBAN-nummer: Internationaal bankrekeningnummer, een gestandaardiseerde rekeningidentificatiecode die voor
internationale transacties wordt gebruikt.
• SWIFT-code (BIC): Een unieke bankidentificatiecode die wordt gebruikt voor internationale elektronische
overmakingen.
• Valuta: De valuta waarin de bankrekening staat (bv. EUR, USD enz.).
• Rekeningnummer: als er geen IBAN beschikbaar is, vink dan “Ik heb geen IBAN-nummer” aan om dit veld vrij te
geven en het bankrekeningnummer te vermelden.NL
• Andere identificatiecode van de bank: in dit veld kunnen aanvullende bankgegevens worden opgenomen die nodig
zijn om bankrekeningen van buiten de EU te registreren, met name wanneer een IBAN niet beschikbaar is.
Opmerking: Indien het adres van de bankrekeninghouder verschilt van het hierboven vermelde hoofdadres van de juridische
entiteit/persoon, vermeld dan het adres van de bankrekeninghouder.
Sectie 6: Indiening formulier en machtiging
Deze sectie moet worden ingevuld door de vertegenwoordiger van de juridische entiteit:
• Rol (alleen voor juridische entiteiten): Specificeer de positie of functie van de vertegenwoordiger van de juridische
entiteit (bv. eigenaar, directeur, verkoopmanager enz.).
• Datum: datum van het invullen en indienen van het formulier.
Bevestig tot slot dat alle verstrekte informatie juist en volledig is om ervoor te zorgen dat de betalingen aan de juiste
begunstigde worden verricht. Zodra dit veld is gevalideerd, wordt het gelockt om verdere wijzigingen te voorkomen.
Sectie 7: Vereiste documenten
Volg de volgende documenten bij om de op het formulier verstrekte informatie te verifiëren en uw inschrijving in te vervolledigen.
Zorg ervoor dat alle informatie in het formulier overeenkomt met de gegevens in uw officiële documenten om vertragingen bij de
verwerking te voorkomen:
• Bewijs van bankinformatie
Een document waaruit uw bankidentiteit blijkt: RIB of een kopie van een bankafschrift (van de laatste zes maanden)
met de naam van de rekeninghouder, het rekening-/IBAN-nummer, de BIC/SWIFT-code en de naam van de bank. U
kunt andere gevoelige informatie weglaten.
• Identificatiedocument
Voor natuurlijke personen, een kopie van uw identiteitskaart of paspoort;
Voor entiteiten, een kopie van een officieel document met de naam, het btw-nummer en het adres van de
onderneming (bv. oprichtingsbewijs, bedrijfsregistratiecertificaat, uittreksel uit het handelsregister, btw-/fiscaal
registratiecertificaat; uittreksel uit een overheids- of officieel register).
Regelgeving
Artikel 86 van Verordening (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 van het Europees Parlement en de Raad van 23 september 2024 tot
vaststelling van de financiële regels van toepassing op de algemene begroting van de Unie (herschikking) bevat de volgende
bepalingen:
Artikel 86, lid 3 - Beheer van de kasmiddelen
“Vóór het aangaan van een verbintenis jegens een derde bevestigt de ordonnateur de identiteit van de betalingsbegunstigden,
stelt hij de juridische entiteit en de betalingsgegevens van de betalingsbegunstigde vast en neemt hij deze op in een
gemeenschappelijk bestand van de instelling van de Unie waarvoor de rekenplichtige bevoegd is.
De rekenplichtige kan alleen betalingen verrichten indien de juridische entiteit en de betalingsgegevens van de
betalingsbegunstigde van tevoren zijn opgenomen in een gemeenschappelijk bestand per instelling van de Unie waarvoor de
rekenplichtige bevoegd is.
De ordonnateurs delen de rekenplichtige alle wijzigingen mee in de door de betalingsbegunstigde meegedeelde rechtspersoon
en betalingsgegevens en onderzoeken of die gegevens geldig zijn voordat zij betalingen goedkeuren.”PL
INSTRUKCJA WYPEŁNIANIA FORMULARZA IDENTYFIKACJI FINANSOWEJ
Formularz identyfikacji finansowej (FIF) gromadzi niezbędne dane finansowe i prawne wymagane do przetwarzania płatności i
utworzenia konta w systemie księgowości Parlamentu Europejskiego (PE). Postępuj zgodnie z tymi instrukcjami, aby przesłać
kompletny i odpowiednio wypełniony formularz.
Formularz przygotowano w języku angielskim (tłumaczenia na wszystkie języki urzędowe UE znajdują się na ostatnich
stronach), ale należy go wypełnić w języku ojczystym bez znaków specjalnych. Formularz należy wypełnić wyłącznie
przy użyciu alfabetu łacińskiego, dbając o to, aby informacje były dokładnie takie same, jak w dokumencie tożsamości
lub dokumentach rejestracji przedsiębiorstwa. Jeśli imię i nazwisko lub adres są oryginalnie zapisane alfabetem innym
niż łaciński, np. cyrylicą lub alfabetem greckim, należy przekształcić je na alfabet łaciński przy użyciu standardowych
zasad transkrypcji.
Sekcja 1 – Typ podmiotu prawnego i numer VAT
Typ podmiotu prawnego
Wskaż typ podmiotu, który najlepiej opisuje Twój status prawny.
• Podmiot odprowadzający podatek VAT: przedsiębiorstwo lub organizacja zarejestrowane do pobierania i
odprowadzania VAT – płatnik VAT;
• Podmiot nieodprowadzający podatku VAT: przedsiębiorstwo lub organizacja publiczna niezarejestrowane w
systemie VAT i nieodprowadzające podatku VAT;
• Osoba fizyczna: osoba fizyczna, która działa niezależnie lub w ramach jednoosobowej działalności gospodarczej;
• Grupa podmiotów gospodarczych BEZ osobowości prawnej: grupa podmiotów gospodarczych nieposiadająca
osobowości prawnej jest traktowana inaczej niż grupa posiadająca osobowość prawną. Grupa posiadająca osobowość
prawną jest traktowana jako osobny podmiot prawny odrębny od swoich członków, natomiast grupa nieposiadająca
osobowości prawnej musi wyznaczyć lidera, który będzie ją reprezentował w kontaktach z PE. Lider musi być
zarejestrowany w systemie księgowości PE i muszą się tam znajdować wszystkie niezbędne informacje na jego temat.
Przed zarejestrowaniem grupy konieczne jest potwierdzenie, że lider znajduje się już w systemie. Jeśli nie, należy
wypełnić dodatkowy FIF z informacjami o liderze. Jeśli FIF dotyczy grupy nieposiadającej osobowości prawnej, należy
wybrać opcję „Podmiot nieodprowadzający podatku VAT” i wypełnić sekcję „Podmiot prawny”, aby uwzględnić
informacje o grupie.
Numer VAT
W przypadku podmiotów zarejestrowanych do celów poboru podatku VAT należy podać numer VAT-UE (w tym kod kraju i
numer), który można zweryfikować w wyszukiwarce VIES na stronie https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Szczególny przypadek numeru VAT dla osób fizycznych: jeśli osoba fizyczna posiada numer VAT, ponieważ jest
freelancerem lub prowadzi jednoosobową działalność gospodarczą, należy podać numer VAT w odpowiedniej rubryce. Nie trzeba
wypełniać tej rubryki, ale znajduje się ona na formularzu w razie potrzeby.
Sekcja 2 – Informacje o podmiocie prawnym
Podaj szczegółowe informacje o podmiocie prawnym. Przepisy określają prawa i obowiązki podmiotu prawnego.
• Forma prawna: struktura podmiotu prawnego, na przykład spółka z ograniczoną odpowiedzialnością, spółka osobowa,
organizacja non profit, organ publiczny itp.;
• Nazwa organizacji: oficjalna, zarejestrowana nazwa podmiotu zgodna z załączonym dokumentem urzędowym.
Sekcja 3 – Informacje o osobie fizycznej (tylko dla osób fizycznych)
Jeśli wypełniasz ten formularz jako osoba fizyczna, podaj swoje dane osobowe.
• Imię: podaj swoje imię;
• Nazwisko: podaj swoje nazwisko.
Sekcja 4 – Adres
Podaj adres podmiotu lub osoby fizycznej: ulica, numer, kod pocztowy, miasto, kraj. E-mail (nieobowiązkowy): podaj adres
poczty elektronicznej do celów komunikacji. Nie jest to pole obowiązkowe.
Sekcja 5 – Informacje bankowe
Podaj dane konta bankowego zgodne z załączonym dokumentem potwierdzającym dane bankowe lub wyciągiem z konta
bankowego. Podaj informacje dotyczące banku i konta, które będą używane do transakcji płatniczych.
• Nazwa banku: oficjalna nazwa banku lub instytucji finansowej;
• Właściciel konta: imię i nazwisko osoby lub nazwa podmiotu będącego właścicielem rachunku bankowego;
• Numer IBAN: międzynarodowy numer rachunku bankowego, standard służący do identyfikowania rachunku
bankowego używany do transakcji międzynarodowych;
• Kod SWIFT (BIC): unikalny kod identyfikacyjny banku używany do międzynarodowych przelewów bankowych;
• Waluta: waluta, w której prowadzony jest rachunek (np. EUR, USD itp.);
• Numer konta: jeśli nie posiadasz numeru IBAN, zaznacz opcję „Nie posiadam numeru IBAN”, aby odblokować to pole
i podać numer rachunku bankowego;
• Dodatkowe informacje bankowe: w tym polu możesz wprowadzić dodatkowe dane bankowe wymagane do
zarejestrowania rachunków bankowych spoza UE, zwłaszcza gdy nie posiadasz numeru IBAN.PL
Uwaga: Jeśli adres właściciela rachunku bankowego różni się od adresu siedziby podmiotu prawnego podanego
powyżej, należy podać adres właściciela rachunku bankowego.
Sekcja 6 – Składanie i zatwierdzanie formularza
Tę sekcję wypełnia przedstawiciel podmiotu prawnego.
• Rola (dotyczy tylko podmiotów prawnych): podaj stanowisko lub funkcję przedstawiciela podmiotu prawnego (np.
właściciel, dyrektor, kierownik sprzedaży itp.);
• Data: data wypełnienia i złożenia formularza.
Na koniec sprawdź, czy podane informacje są poprawne i kompletne, aby płatności trafiły na rachunek właściwego
beneficjenta. Po zatwierdzeniu tego pola nie będzie możliwa dalsza zmiana danych.
Sekcja 7 – Wymagane dokumenty
Załącz następujące dokumenty w celu zweryfikowania informacji podanych w formularzu i złożenia wniosku. Upewnij się, że
wszystkie informacje w formularzu są zgodne z danymi w oficjalnych dokumentach, aby uniknąć opóźnień w przetwarzaniu
wniosku.
• Dokument potwierdzający informacje bankowe
Dokument potwierdzający dane bankowe lub wyciąg z konta bankowego (z datą z ostatnich sześciu miesięcy), który
zawiera imię i nazwisko właściciela konta, numer konta/IBAN, kod BIC/SWIFT i nazwę banku. Możesz usunąć inne
poufne informacje.
• Dokumenty tożsamości
W przypadku osób fizycznych – kopia dowodu osobistego lub paszportu;
W przypadku podmiotów – kopia oficjalnego dokumentu z nazwą przedsiębiorstwa, numerem VAT i adresem, np.
świadectwo zarejestrowania spółki, zaświadczenie o rejestracji działalności gospodarczej, wyciąg z rejestru
handlowego, zaświadczenie o rejestracji jako podatnik VAT, wyciąg z rządowego lub oficjalnego rejestru
przedsiębiorców.
Przepisy wykonawcze
Następujące przepisy art. 86 rozporządzenia Parlamentu Europejskiego i Rady (UE, Euratom) 2024/2509 z 23 września
2024 r. w sprawie zasad finansowych mających zastosowanie do budżetu ogólnego Unii (wersja przekształcona):
Art. 86 ust. 3 – zarządzanie zasobami finansowymi
„Przed zaciągnięciem zobowiązania wobec osób trzecich urzędnik zatwierdzający potwierdza tożsamość odbiorcy płatności,
określa osobowość prawną odbiorcy płatności i szczegóły płatności oraz wprowadza je do wspólnych akt instytucji Unii, za którą
jest odpowiedzialny księgowy.
Księgowy może dokonać płatności, wyłącznie jeżeli wcześniej instytucja Unii, za którą jest on odpowiedzialny, wprowadziła do
wspólnych akt informacje dotyczące podmiotu prawnego odbiorcy płatności i szczegóły płatności.
Zanim urzędnicy zatwierdzający zatwierdzą jakąkolwiek płatność, informują księgowego o wszelkich zmianach w podmiocie
prawnym i w szczegółach płatności przekazanych im przez odbiorcę płatności oraz weryfikują, czy szczegóły te są ważne”.PT
GUIA DE PREENCHIMENTO DO FORMULÁRIO DE IDENTIFICAÇÃO FINANCEIRA
O Formulário de Identificação Financeira (FIF) recolhe os dados financeiros e jurídicos essenciais necessários para o
processamento dos pagamentos e a criação da sua conta no sistema contabilístico do Parlamento Europeu (PE). Siga
cuidadosamente as instruções que se seguem para garantir que o formulário é apresentado com informações completas e
exatas.
O formulário está em inglês (as traduções para todas as línguas da UE figuram no verso), mas preencha-o na sua língua.
Não utilize carateres especiais. Preencha também o formulário apenas com carateres latinos e certifique-se de que as
informações introduzidas correspondem exatamente às que figuram nos seus documentos de identificação ou de
registo da empresa. Se, na sua língua, o seu nome ou endereço forem normalmente escritos num alfabeto não latino,
como o cirílico ou o grego, utilize regras de transcrição normalizadas para o converter corretamente em carateres
latinos.
Secção 1: Tipo de entidade jurídica e número de IVA
Tipo de entidade jurídica
Indique o tipo de entidade que melhor descreve o seu estatuto jurídico.
• Entidade jurídica com IVA: refere-se a uma empresa ou organização registada para cobrar e pagar o imposto sobre
ovalor acrescentado (IVA) sobre bens ou serviços – sujeito passivo de IVA.
• Entidade jurídica sem IVA: refere-se a uma empresa ou um organismo público que não está registado para efeitos
de IVA e não é sujeito passivo de IVA.
• Pessoa singular: indivíduo que opera de forma independente ou como empresário em nome individual.
• Agrupamento de operadores económicos SEM entidade jurídica: um agrupamento de operadores económicos
sem entidade jurídica é gerido de forma diferente de um agrupamento que disponha de uma entidade jurídica. Embora
um agrupamento com entidade jurídica seja tratado como uma entidade jurídica distinta dos seus membros, um
agrupamento sem entidade jurídica deve nomear um responsável para o representar nas interações com o PE. O
responsável deve estar registado no sistema contabilístico do PE com todas as informações necessárias. Antes de
registar o agrupamento, é essencial confirmar que o responsável já existe no sistema. Caso contrário, deve ser
preenchido um Formulário de Identificação Financeira (FIF) adicional com as informações do responsável. Quando o
FIF diga respeito a um agrupamento sem entidade jurídica, deve ser selecionada a opção «Entidade jurídica sem IVA»
e a secção «Entidade jurídica» deve ser preenchida com as informações do agrupamento.
Número de IVA
Para as entidades registadas para cobrar o IVA, indicar o número de IVA intracomunitário da UE (incluindo o código do país
e o número), cuja validade pode ser verificada no sistema de validação do número de IVA do VIES na seguinte página:
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Caso particular de número de IVA para pessoas singulares: se uma pessoa singular tiver um número de IVA por exercer
uma profissão liberal ou uma atividade independente, deve indicar o número de IVA no campo previsto para o efeito. Este campo
é facultativo e pode ser deixado em branco, mas está disponível em caso de necessidade.
Secção 2: Informação sobre a entidade jurídica
Forneça informações pormenorizadas sobre a entidade jurídica. A entidade jurídica é reconhecida pela lei com direitos e
obrigações.
• Forma jurídica: especifica a estrutura da entidade jurídica, por exemplo uma sociedade de responsabilidade limitada,
uma parceria, uma organização sem fins lucrativos, um organismo público, etc.
• Nome da organização: o nome oficial registado da entidade, tal como especificado no documento oficial que
apresenta em anexo.
Secção 3: Informação sobre a pessoa singular (apenas para indivíduos)
Se preencher este formulário a título individual, forneça os seus dados pessoais:
• Nome próprio: o(s) seu(s) primeiro(s) nome(s).
• Apelido: o(s) seu(s) último(s) nome(s).
Secção 4: Endereço
Indique o endereço registado da entidade ou do indivíduo: rua, número, código postal, localidade, país. Endereço eletrónico
(opcional): o endereço de correio eletrónico para efeitos de comunicação. O endereço de correio eletrónico não é um campo
obrigatório.
Secção 5: Informações bancárias
Preencha esta secção com os dados da sua conta bancária, conforme especificados na declaração de identidade bancária (RIB)
ou no extrato bancário que apresenta em anexo. Forneça os dados do banco e a conta a utilizar nas operações de pagamento.
• Nome do banco: a designação oficial do banco ou da instituição financeira.
• Nome do titular da conta: o nome da pessoa ou entidade que detém a conta bancária.
• IBAN: número internacional de conta bancária, um identificador de conta normalizado utilizado para transações
internacionais.
• Código SWIFT (BIC): um código identificador único do banco utilizado para transferências eletrónicas internacionais.
• Moeda: a moeda na qual a conta está denominada (por exemplo, EUR, USD, etc.).PT
• Número de conta: se um IBAN não estiver disponível, selecione «Não tenho um número IBAN» para ativar este
campo e indique o número de conta bancária.
• Outro identificador bancário: este campo permite introduzir os dados bancários adicionais necessários para registar
contas bancárias de países terceiros, em particular quando um IBAN não está disponível.
Nota: se o endereço do titular da conta bancária for diferente do endereço principal da entidade jurídica ou da pessoa singular
acima indicada, especifique o endereço do titular da conta bancária.
Secção 6: Apresentação e autorização do formulário
O representante da entidade jurídica deve preencher esta secção:
• Função (apenas para entidades jurídicas): especifica a posição ou função do representante da entidade jurídica
(por ex., proprietário, diretor, gestor de vendas, etc.).
• Data: data do preenchimento e da apresentação do formulário.
Como etapa final, confirme que todas as informações prestadas são exatas e completas, de forma a que os pagamentos
sejam efetuados ao beneficiário correto. Após a confirmação, os dados neste campo são bloqueados para impedir
alterações ulteriores.
Secção 7: Documentos a fornecer
Deve anexar ao formulário os documentos a seguir indicados para fins de verificação das informações prestadas e para concluir
o procedimento. Certifique-se de que todas as informações constantes do formulário correspondem aos dados que figuram nos
seus documentos oficiais, a fim de evitar atrasos no tratamento:
• Prova das informações bancárias
Um documento que ateste a sua identidade bancária: uma declaração de identidade bancária (RIB) ou uma cópia do
extrato bancário (com menos de seis meses) que indique o nome do titular da conta, o número de conta/IBAN, o
código BIC/SWIFT e o nome do banco. Pode ocultar outras informações sensíveis.
• Documentos de identificação
Para as pessoas singulares, uma cópia do seu bilhete de identidade ou passaporte;
Para as entidades, uma cópia de um documento oficial com o nome, o número de IVA e o endereço da empresa
(por ex., ato de constituição, certificado de registo comercial, extrato do registo comercial, certificado de registo em
IVA, certificado de registo fiscal, extrato de um anuário mantido pelo Estado ou por uma autoridade pública).
Disposições regulamentares
O artigo 86.º do Regulamento (UE, Euratom) 2024/2509 do Parlamento Europeu e do Conselho, de 23 de setembro de 2024,
relativo às regras financeiras aplicáveis ao orçamento geral da União (reformulação) prevê o seguinte:
Artigo 86.º, n.º 3 – Gestão da tesouraria
«Antes de assumir um compromisso perante terceiros, o gestor orçamental confirma a identidade do beneficiário do pagamento,
estabelece a entidade jurídica e as referências bancárias do beneficiário do pagamento e introduz essas informações no ficheiro
comum da instituição da União pela qual é responsável.
O contabilista só pode efetuar pagamentos se a entidade jurídica e as referências bancárias do beneficiário do pagamento
tiverem sido previamente inscritas no ficheiro comum da instituição da União pela qual é responsável.
Os gestores orçamentais informam o contabilista das alterações da entidade jurídica e das referências bancárias que lhes
tiverem sido comunicadas pelo beneficiário do pagamento, e verificam se essas referências são válidas antes de autorizarem
um pagamento».RO
GHID PENTRU COMPLETAREA FORMULARULUI DE IDENTIFICARE FINANCIARĂ
Formularul de identificare financiară conține datele financiare și juridice esențiale pentru procesarea plăților și crearea contului
dumneavoastră în sistemul contabil al Parlamentului European. Urmați cu atenție aceste instrucțiuni pentru a vă asigura că
formularul este trimis cu informații complete și exacte.
Formularul este în limba engleză (traducerea sa în toate limbile UE figurează pe verso), însă vă rugăm să îl completați
în limba originală fără caractere speciale. De asemenea, vă rugăm să completați acest formular utilizând doar caractere
latine. Asigurați-vă că reproduceți exact informațiile care figurează pe documentul dumneavoastră de identitate sau în
documentele de înregistrare a societății. Dacă numele sau adresa dumneavoastră este scris(ă) inițial într-un alt alfabet
decât cel latin (de exemplu, chirilic sau grec), vă rugăm să utilizați regulile de transliterare standardizate pentru a îl/o
transpune corect în caractere latine.
Secțiunea 1: Tipul de entitate juridică și numărul de TVA
Tipul de entitate juridică
Indicați tipul de entitate care descrie cel mai bine statutul dumneavoastră juridic.
• Entitate juridică cu TVA: se referă la o întreprindere sau la o organizație înregistrată pentru a colecta și plăti taxa pe
valoarea adăugată (TVA) pentru bunuri sau servicii – entitate plătitoare de TVA.
• Entitate juridică fără TVA: se referă la o întreprindere sau la o organizație publică care nu este înregistrată în scopuri
de TVA și nu este plătitoare de TVA.
• Persoană fizică: un particular care își desfășoară activitatea în mod independent sau ca întreprinzător individual.
• Grup de operatori economici FĂRĂ entitate juridică: un grup de operatori economici fără entitate juridică este
gestionat diferit de un grup care are o entitate juridică. În timp ce un grup care dispune de o entitate juridică este tratat
ca o entitate juridică separată, distinctă de membrii săi, un grup fără entitate juridică trebuie să numească un
responsabil care să îl reprezinte în relațiile sale cu Parlamentul European. Responsabilul trebuie să fie înregistrat în
sistemul contabil al Parlamentului cu toate datele necesare. Înainte de a înregistra grupul, este esențial să confirmați
că responsabilul figurează deja în sistem. În caz contrar, trebuie completat un formular de identificare financiară
suplimentar cu informațiile privind responsabilul. Atunci când formularul de identificare financiară se referă la grupul
fără entitate juridică, trebuie selectată opțiunea „Entitate juridică fără TVA” și trebuie completată secțiunea „Entitate
juridică” cu informații privind grupul.
Numărul TVA
Pentru entitățile înregistrate în vederea colectării TVA, vă rugăm să introduceți numărul TVA intracomunitar european (inclusiv
codul de țară și numărul), care poate fi verificat în sistemul VIES de validare a numărului TVA prin
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Cazul special al numărului TVA pentru persoane fizice: dacă o persoană fizică dispune de un număr TVA deoarece exercită
oprofesie liberală sau o activitate independentă, vă rugăm să indicați numărul TVA în câmpul prevăzut în acest sens. Acest
câmp este facultativ și poate fi lăsat necompletat, dar este disponibil în caz de nevoie.
Secțiunea 2: Informații privind entitatea juridică
Vă rugăm să furnizați informații cu privire la entitatea juridică. Entitatea juridică este recunoscută prin lege ca având drepturi și
obligații.
• Formă juridică: precizează structura entității juridice, de exemplu societate cu răspundere limitată, parteneriat,
organizație fără scop lucrativ, organism public etc.
• Numele organizației: Numele oficial înregistrat al entității, așa cum figurează în documentul oficial anexat.
Secțiunea 3: Informații privind persoanele fizice (numai pentru particulari)
Dacă completați acest formular în calitate de particular, vă rugăm să furnizați datele dumneavoastră cu caracter personal:
• Prenume: prenumele dumneavoastră.
• Nume: numele dumneavoastră de familie.
Secțiunea 4: Adresa
Indicați adresa înregistrată a entității sau a persoanei fizice: strada, numărul, codul poștal, orașul, țara, e-mailul (facultativ):
adresa electronică este utilizată pentru a comunica. Completarea acestui câmp nu este obligatorie.
Secțiunea 5: Coordonatele bancare
Completați această secțiune cu coordonatele contului dumneavoastră bancar, așa cum figurează ele în extrasul de identitate
bancară sau în extrasul de cont anexat: Precizați banca și contul care urmează să fie utilizate pentru operațiunile de plată.
• Numele băncii: numele oficial al băncii sau al instituției financiare.
• Numele titularului de cont: numele persoanei sau al entității care deține contul bancar.
• Codul IBAN: numărul de cont bancar internațional, un număr de identificare standardizat al contului utilizat pentru
tranzacțiile internaționale.
• Codul SWIFT (BIC): Un cod unic de identificare bancară utilizat pentru viramentele electronice internaționale.
• Moneda: Moneda contului (de exemplu, EUR, USD etc.).
• Numărul de cont bancar: dacă nu este disponibil codul IBAN, bifați „Nu am număr IBAN” pentru a activa acest câmp
și a furniza numărul de cont bancar.RO
• Alt cod de identificare bancară: acest câmp vă permite să introduceți coordonatele bancare suplimentare necesare
pentru înregistrarea conturilor bancare din afara UE, în special atunci când nu este disponibil un cod IBAN.
N.B.: Dacă adresa titularului de cont diferă de adresa principală a entității juridice sau a persoanei menționate mai sus, vă rugăm
să precizați adresa titularului de cont.
Secțiunea 6: Depunerea formularului și autorizarea
Această secțiune trebuie completată de reprezentantul entității juridice:
• Rol (numai pentru entitățile juridice): precizează poziția sau funcția reprezentantului entității juridice (de exemplu,
proprietar, director, director de vânzări etc.).
• Data: data completării și depunerii formularului.
Ca ultim pas, vă rugăm să verificați dacă toate informațiile furnizate sunt exacte și complete pentru a vă asigura că
plățile sunt efectuate către beneficiarul corect. Odată validat, acest câmp blochează datele pentru a împiedica
modificările ulterioare.
Secțiunea 7: Documentele necesare
Vă rugăm să anexați următoarele documente pentru a verifica informațiile furnizate în formular și pentru a completa dosarul
dumneavoastră. Pentru a evita orice întârziere în procesare, vă rugăm să verificați dacă toate informațiile din formular sunt
identice cu cele din documentele oficiale:
• Dovada coordonatelor bancare
Un document care să ateste identitatea dumneavoastră bancară: extras de identitate bancară sau o copie a extrasului
de cont (din ultimele șase luni) care să indice numele titularului de cont, numărul de cont/IBAN, codul BIC/SWIFT și
numele băncii. Puteți oculta alte informații sensibile.
• Documente de identificare
Pentru persoanele fizice, o copie a cărții de identitate sau a pașaportului dumneavoastră;
Pentru entități, o copie a unui document oficial care să includă numele, numărul TVA și adresa societății (de exemplu,
certificat de înmatriculare, certificat de înscriere în registrul comerțului, extras din registrul comerțului, certificat de
înregistrare în scopuri de TVA/certificat de înregistrare fiscală, extras dintr-un registru guvernamental sau oficial).
Dispoziții de reglementare
Articolul 86 din Regulamentul (UE, Euratom) 2024/2509 al Parlamentului European și al Consiliului din 23 septembrie 2024
privind normele financiare aplicabile bugetului general al Uniunii (reformare) prevede următoarele:
Articolul 86 alineatul (3) – Gestionarea trezoreriei
„Înainte de a încheia un angajament față de un terț, ordonatorul de credite confirmă identitatea beneficiarului, stabilește entitatea
juridică și detaliile de plată ale beneficiarilor și le introduce în dosarul comun pe instituția Uniunii de care este responsabil
contabilul.
Contabilul poate efectua plăți numai în cazul în care entitatea juridică a beneficiarului plății și detaliile privind plata au fost
înregistrate în prealabil într-un dosar comun pe instituția Uniunii de care contabilul este responsabil.
Ordonatorii de credite informează contabilul cu privire la orice modificare privind entitatea juridică și detaliile de plată care le-a
fost comunicată de către beneficiarul plății și verifică validitatea respectivelor date înainte să ordonanțeze plata.”SK
PRÍRUČKA NA VYPLNENIE FORMULÁRA NA FINANČNÚ IDENTIFIKÁCIU
Formulár na finančnú identifikáciu (FIF) zhromažďuje základné finančné a právne údaje potrebné na spracovanie platieb
a zriadenie vášho účtu v účtovnom systéme Európskeho parlamentu (EP). Tieto pokyny dodržiavajte presne, aby ste formulár
predložili úplný a presný.
Formulár je v angličtine (preklady do všetkých jazykov EÚ nájdete na zadných stranách), ale vyplňte ho v pôvodnom
jazyku bez špeciálnych znakov. Tento formulár vyplňte len latinkou, pričom sa uistite, že informácie sa presne zhodujú
s tými, ktoré sú na vašich identifikačných dokladoch alebo v registračných dokladoch spoločnosti. Ak sa vaše meno
alebo adresa pôvodne píšu inou abecedou, napríklad cyrilikou alebo gréckou abecedou, použite štandardizované
pravidlá prepisu do latinky.
Oddiel 1: Typ právneho subjektu a identifikačné číslo DPH
Typ právneho subjektu
Uveďte typ právneho subjektu, ktorý najlepšie opisuje vaše právne postavenie.
• Právny subjekt s DPH: Ide o podnik alebo organizáciu, ktorá je registrovaná na výber a platenie dane z pridanej
hodnoty (DPH) z tovaru alebo služieb – platiteľ DPH.
• Právny subjekt bez DPH: Ide o podnik alebo verejnú organizáciu, ktorá nie je registrovaná na DPH a nie je platiteľom
DPH.
• Fyzická osoba: Fyzická osoba, ktorá pôsobí nezávisle alebo ako samostatne zárobkovo činná osoba.
• Skupina hospodárskych subjektov BEZ právneho subjektu Skupina hospodárskych subjektov bez právneho
subjektu je spravovaná inak ako skupina, ktorá má právny subjekt. Zatiaľ čo skupina s právnym subjektom sa považuje
za samostatný právny subjekt odlišný od jej členov, skupina bez právneho subjektu musí vymenovať vedúceho, ktorý
ju bude zastupovať v interakcii s EP. Vedúci musí byť zaregistrovaný v účtovnom systéme EP so všetkými potrebnými
údajmi. Pred registráciou skupiny je nevyhnutné overiť, že vedúci už v systéme existuje. Ak nie, musíte vyplniť
dodatočný formulár na finančnú identifikáciu (FIF) spolu s informáciami o vedúcom. Ak je FIF pre skupinu bez právneho
subjektu, musíte vybrať možnosť „právny subjekt bez DPH “ a mali by ste vyplniť časť právny subjekt, aby obsahovala
informácie o skupine.
IČ DPH
V prípade subjektov registrovaných na výber DPH uveďte IČ DPH v rámci EÚ (vrátane kódu krajiny a čísla), ktoré možno overiť
v systéme overovania čísla DPH VIES prostredníctvom https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Osobitný prípad identifikačného čísla DPH pre fyzické osoby: Ak má fyzická osoba identifikačné číslo DPH, pretože je
samostatne zárobkovo činnou osobou alebo živnostníkom, uveďte identifikačné číslo DPH v dostupnom políčku pre DPH. Toto
políčko je nepovinné a môže sa ponechať prázdne, ale v prípade potreby je k dispozícii.
Oddiel 2: Informácie o právnom subjekte
Uveďte podrobnosti o právnom subjekte. Právny subjekt je uznaný zákonom s právami a povinnosťami.
• Právna forma: Špecifikuje štruktúru právneho subjektu, ako je spoločnosť s ručením obmedzeným, partnerstvo alebo
nezisková organizácia, verejný subjekt atď.
• Názov organizácie: Úradný, registrovaný názov subjektu, ako sa uvádza v priloženom úradnom doklade.
Oddiel 3: Informácie o fyzickej osobe (len pre jednotlivcov)
Ak vypĺňate tento formulár ako jednotlivec, uveďte svoje osobné údaje:
• Krstné meno: Vaše krstné meno.
• Priezvisko: Vaše priezvisko.
Oddiel 4: Adresa
Uveďte údaje o registrovanej adrese subjektu alebo fyzickej osoby: ulica, číslo domu, PSČ, mesto, krajina. E-mail
(nepovinné): E-mailová adresa na komunikačné účely. E-mail nie je povinným políčkom.
Oddiel 5: Informácie o banke
Vyplňte túto časť s údajmi o vašom bankovom účte, ako sa uvádzajú v priloženom RIB/výpise z bankového účtu: Uveďte
podrobnosti o banke a účte, ktorý sa má použiť na platobné transakcie.
• Názov banky: oficiálny názov banky alebo finančnej inštitúcie.
• Meno držiteľa účtu meno osoby alebo názov subjektu, ktorý vlastní bankový účet.
• IBAN: Medzinárodné číslo bankového účtu, štandardizovaný identifikátor účtu používaný pre medzinárodné
transakcie.
• SWIFT kód (BIC): Jedinečný identifikačný kód banky používaný pri medzinárodných elektronických prevodoch.
• Mena: Mena, v ktorej je účet denominovaný (napr. EUR, USD atď.).
• Číslo účtu: ak nie je k dispozícii IBAN, označte možnosť „Nemám číslo IBAN“, aby ste otvorili políčko, a uveďte číslo
bankového účtu.
• Iný bankový identifikátor: tu môžete uviesť dodatočné bankové údaje potrebné na registráciu bankových účtov mimo
EÚ, najmä ak nie je k dispozícii IBAN.
Poznámka: Ak sa adresa majiteľa bankového účtu líši od hlavnej adresy uvedeného právneho subjektu/osoby, uveďte adresu
majiteľa bankového účtu.SK
Oddiel 6: Predloženie formulára a povolenie
Zástupca právneho subjektu musí vyplniť tento oddiel:
• Pozícia/úloha (len pre právne subjekty): Špecifikuje pozíciu alebo úlohu zástupcu právneho subjektu (napr. vlastník,
riaditeľ, manažér predaja atď.).
• Dátum: dátum vyplnenia a predloženia formulára.
Ako posledný krok potvrďte, že všetky poskytnuté informácie sú presné a úplné, aby sa zabezpečilo, že platby sa
vyplácajú správnemu príjemcovi. Po potvrdení sa údaje v tomto poli uzamknú, aby sa predišlo akýmkoľvek ďalším
zmenám.
Oddiel 7: Požadované dokumenty
Priložte tieto dokumenty na overenie informácií uvedených vo formulári a dokončenie podania. Uistite sa, že všetky informácie
vo formulári zodpovedajú údajom vo vašich úradných dokumentoch, aby sa predišlo oneskoreniam pri spracovaní:
• Doklad o bankových informáciách
Doklad potvrdzujúci vašu bankovú identitu: RIB alebo kópia výpisu z účtu (za posledných šesť mesiacov), na ktorom
je uvedené meno majiteľa účtu, číslo účtu/IBAN, kód BIC/SWIFT a názov banky. Môžete upraviť iné citlivé informácie.
• Identifikačné doklady
V prípade fyzických osôb kópia vášho preukazu totožnosti alebo pasu;
V prípade subjektov kópia úradného dokladu s názvom spoločnosti, číslom DPH a adresou (napr. osvedčenie o zápise
do obchodného registra, osvedčenie o registrácii podniku, výpis z obchodného registra, osvedčenie o registrácii pre
DPH/daňové osvedčenie); Výpis z vládneho alebo úradného zoznamu).
Regulačné ustanovenia
Článok 86 nariadenia (EÚ, Euratom) 2024/2509 Európskeho parlamentu a Rady z 23. septembra 2024 o rozpočtových
pravidlách, ktoré sa vzťahujú na všeobecný rozpočet Únie (prepracované znenie) uvádza:
Článok 86.3 – Správa pokladne
„Pred prijatím záväzku voči tretej strane povoľujúci úradník potvrdí totožnosť príjemcu platby, zistí údaje identifikujúce príjemcu
platby ako právny subjekt a jeho platobné údaje a zaznamená ich do spoločnej zložky inštitúcie Únie, za ktorú je účtovník
zodpovedný.
Účtovník môže vykonať platby iba vtedy, ak inštitúcia Únie, za ktorú je účtovník zodpovedný, zaznamenala údaje identifikujúce
príjemcu platby ako právny subjekt a jeho platobné údaje do spoločnej zložky.
Povoľujúci úradníci informujú účtovníka o akýchkoľvek zmenách údajov týkajúcich sa právneho subjektu a platobných údajov,
ktoré im príjemca platby oznámil, a overia platnosť týchto údajov pred schválením akejkoľvek platby“.SL
NAVODILA ZA IZPOLNJEVANJE OBRAZCA ZA FINANČNO IDENTIFIKACIJO
Na obrazcu za finančno identifikacijo (FIF) so zbrani bistveni finančni in pravni podatki, potrebni za obdelavo plačil in pripravo
vašega računa v računovodskem sistemu Evropskega parlamenta. Natančno upoštevajte ta navodila, da bodo podatki na
predloženem obrazcu popolni in točni.
Obrazec je v angleščini (prevodi v vse jezike EU so na zadnjih straneh), izpolnite pa ga v izvirnem jeziku brez posebnih
znakov. Obrazec izpolnite izključno v latinici, pri tem pa se prepričajte, da se informacije povsem ujemajo s tistimi na
vašem osebnem dokumentu ali v dokumentaciji za registracijo podjetja. Če sta vaše ime oziroma naslov izvirno zapisana
v nelatinični pisavi, na primer v cirilici ali grški pisavi, upoštevajte standardizirana pravila za prečrkovanje, da ju pravilno
zapišete v latinici.
Razdelek 1: Vrsta pravnega subjekta in identifikacijska številka za DDV
Vrsta pravnega subjekta
Navedite vrsto subjekta, ki najbolje opisuje vaš pravni status.
• Pravni subjekt z DDV: Se nanaša na podjetje ali organizacijo, ki je registrirana za pobiranje in plačevanje davka na
dodano vrednost (DDV) na blago ali storitve ter je zavezanec za DDV.
• Pravni subjekt brez DDV: Se nanaša na podjetje ali javno organizacijo, ki ni registrirana za namene DDV in ni
zavezanec za DDV.
• Fizična oseba: Posameznik, ki deluje neodvisno ali kot samostojni podjetnik.
• Skupina gospodarskih subjektov BREZ pravne osebnosti: Skupina gospodarskih subjektov brez pravne osebnosti
se upravlja drugače kot skupina, ki ima pravno osebnost. Medtem ko se skupina s pravno osebnostjo obravnava kot
neodvisen pravni subjekt, ločen od njenih članov, mora skupina brez pravne osebnosti imenovati vodjo, ki jo zastopa
v stikih z EP. Vodja mora biti registriran v računovodskem sistemu EP z vsemi potrebnimi podrobnostmi. Pred
registracijo skupine je treba potrditi, da je vodja v sistemu že zabeležen, saj je treba v nasprotnem primeru izpolniti
dodatni obrazec za finančno identifikacijo s podatki vodje. Kadar je obrazec za finančno identifikacijo namenjen skupini
brez pravne osebnosti, je treba izbrati možnost „Pravni subjekt brez DDV“ in v razdelek za pravne subjekte vnesti
informacije o skupini.
Identifikacijska številka za DDV
Za subjekte, registrirane za namene DDV, vnesite evropsko identifikacijsko številko za DDV (vključno s kodo in številko
države), ki jo je mogoče preveriti v sistemu VIES za potrjevanje identifikacijske številke za DDV na naslovu
https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Posebna identifikacijska številka za DDV za fizične osebe: Če ima fizična oseba identifikacijsko številko za DDV, ker je
samozaposlena oseba ali samostojni podjetnik, jo vnesite v polje za DDV. Polja ni treba obvezno izpolniti in lahko ostane prazno,
je pa vseeno na voljo na obrazcu, če bi ga bilo treba izpolniti.
Razdelek 2: Informacije o pravnem subjektu
Navedite podrobnosti o pravnem subjektu. Pravni subjekt je zakonsko priznan ter ima pravice in obveznosti.
• Pravna oblika: Določa strukturo pravnega subjekta, kot je družba z omejeno odgovornostjo, partnerstvo ali neprofitna
organizacija, javni organ itd.
• Ime organizacije: Uradno registrirano ime subjekta, kot je navedeno v priloženem uradnem dokumentu.
Razdelek 3: Podatki o fizični osebi (samo za posameznike)
Če obrazec izpolnjujete kot posameznik, navedite svoje osebne podatke:
• Ime: Vaše ime.
• Priimek: Vaš priimek.
Razdelek 4: Naslov
Vpišite registrirani naslov subjekta ali posameznika: ulica, hišna številka, poštna številka, kraj, država. E-naslov
(neobvezno): Elektronski naslov za namene komuniciranja. To polje ni obvezno.
Razdelek 5: Bančni podatki
Ta razdelek izpolnite s podatki o bančnem računu, kot so navedeni v priloženem bančnem potrdilu/izpisku: Navedite podrobnosti
obanki in računu, ki se uporabljata za plačilne transakcije.
• Ime banke: Uradno ime banke ali finančne institucije.
• Ime imetnika računa: Ime osebe ali subjekta, ki je lastnik bančnega računa.
• Številka IBAN: Mednarodna številka bančnega računa, standardizirana identifikacijska oznaka računa, ki se uporablja
za mednarodne transakcije.
• Koda SWIFT (BIC): Edinstvena identifikacijska koda banke, ki se uporablja za mednarodne elektronske transakcije.
• Valuta: Valuta, v kateri je račun denominiran (npr. EUR, USD itd.).
• Številka računa: Če številka IBAN ni na voljo, označite možnost „Nimam številke IBAN“, da omogočite vnos v polje, v
katerega nato navedete številko bančnega računa.
• Drug bančni identifikator: V to polje lahko vnesete dodatne bančne podatke, potrebne za registracijo bančnih računov
zunaj EU, zlasti kadar številka IBAN ni na voljo.SL
Opomba: Če se naslov imetnika bančnega računa razlikuje od glavnega naslova zgoraj navedenega pravnega subjekta/osebe,
navedite naslov imetnika bančnega računa.
Razdelek 6: Predložitev in odobritev obrazca
Ta razdelek mora izpolniti predstavnik pravnega subjekta:
• Vloga (samo za pravne subjekte): Položaj ali funkcija predstavnika pravne osebe (npr. lastnik, direktor, vodja prodaje
itd.).
• Datum: Datum izpolnitve in predložitve obrazca.
V zadnjem koraku potrdite, da so vse vnesene informacije točne in popolne, da bodo plačila izvršena pravemu
upravičencu. Potem ko potrdite podatke, se polje zaklene, da se preprečijo nadaljnje spremembe.
Razdelek 7: Zahtevani dokumenti
Priložite naslednje dokumente, da potrdite informacije, navedene v obrazcu, in končate postopek predložitve. Prepričajte se, da
se vse informacije v obrazcu ujemajo s podatki v uradnih dokumentih, da se preprečijo zamude pri obdelavi:
• Dokazilo o bančnih podatkih
Dokument, ki potrjuje vašo bančno identiteto: Bančno potrdilo (RIB) ali kopija bančnega izpiska (iz zadnjih šestih
mesecev), iz katerega so razvidni ime imetnika računa, številka računa/IBAN, koda BIC/SWIFT in ime banke. Druge
občutljive informacije lahko počrnite.
• Identifikacijski dokumenti
Za fizične osebe, kopija osebne izkaznice ali potnega lista;
Za subjekte, kopija uradnega dokumenta z imenom, DDV in naslovom podjetja (npr. potrdilo o ustanovitvi, potrdilo o
registraciji podjetja, izpisek iz poslovnega registra, potrdilo o DDV/davčni registraciji, izpisek iz vladnega ali uradnega
imenika).
Regulativne določbe
Člen 86 Uredbe (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 Evropskega parlamenta in Sveta z dne 23. septembra 2024 o finančnih pravilih, ki
se uporabljajo za splošni proračun Unije (prenovitev), vsebuje naslednje določbe:
Člen 86(3) – Upravljanje zakladnice
„Odredbodajalec pred sklenitvijo obveznosti s tretjo stranjo potrdi identiteto prejemnika plačila, pridobi podatke o pravnem
subjektu prejemnika plačil in njegove bančne podatke ter jih vnese v skupen dokument institucije Unije, za katerega je odgovoren
računovodja.
Računovodja lahko izvrši plačila šele, ko institucija Unije, za katero je računovodja odgovoren, v skupen dokument vnese podatke
o pravnem subjektu prejemnika plačila in njegove bančne podatke.
Odredbodajalci obvestijo računovodjo o vseh spremembah pravnega subjekta in bančnih podatkov, ki jim jih je sporočil prejemnik
plačila, ter pred odobritvijo kakršnega koli plačila preverijo, da so ti podatki veljavni.“SV
HANDLEDNING FÖR IFYLLANDE AV FORMULÄRET FÖR BANKUPPGIFTER
Formuläret för bankuppgifter (FIF) innehåller finansiella och rättsliga uppgifter som krävs för betalningshantering och för att
öppna ditt konto inom Europaparlamentets (EP) redovisningssystem. Följ noggrant dessa anvisningar för att vara säker på att
du skickar in ett korrekt och fullständigt ifyllt formulär.
Formuläret är på engelska (översättningar till samtliga EU-språk finns på efterföljande sidor), men fyll i det på ditt
modersmål utan användning av specialtecken. Använd bara latinska bokstäver och se till att uppgifterna stämmer
exakt överens med uppgifterna i din id-handling eller i dina företagsregistreringshandlingar. Om ditt namn eller din
adress ursprungligen är skrivna med ett annat alfabet än det latinska, exempelvis kyrilliska eller grekiska, använd
standardiserade transkriberingsregler för omvandlingen till det latinska alfabetet.
Avsnitt 1: Typ av juridisk person och momsregistreringsnummer
Typ av juridisk person
Ange den typ av juridisk person som bäst beskriver din rättsliga ställning.
• Momspliktig juridisk person: Detta avser ett företag eller en organisation som registrerats för att uppbära och
betala mervärdesskatt (moms) på varor eller tjänster.
• Icke momspliktig juridisk person: Avser ett företag eller en offentlig organisation som inte har momsregistrerats
och som inte är en momspliktig juridisk person.
• Fysisk person: En enskild person som bedriver oberoende verksamhet eller som är enmansföretagare.
• Grupp ekonomiska aktörer som INTE är en juridisk person: En grupp ekonomiska aktörer som inte är en juridisk
person hanteras annorlunda än en grupp som är en juridisk person. En grupp som är en juridisk person behandlas
som en separat juridisk person som är skild från sina medlemmar. En grupp som inte är juridisk person måste
däremot utse en ansvarig som företräder den gentemot EP. Den ansvariga personen måste vara registrerad i
EP:s redovisningssystem med alla nödvändiga uppgifter. Innan gruppen registreras är det viktigt att kontrollera att
den ansvariga personen redan finns i systemet. I annat fall måste ytterligare ett FIF-formulär fyllas i med denna
persons uppgifter. När FIF-formuläret avser gruppen som inte är en juridisk person måste alternativet
”Icke momspliktig juridisk person” väljas, och i det avsnitt som avser juridisk person måste gruppens uppgifter anges.
Momsregistreringsnummer
För juridiska personer som är registrerade att uppbära moms, ange EU:s mervärdesskattenummer för gemenskapen
(inklusive landskod och landsnummer), som kan kontrolleras i systemet för utbyte av information om mervärdesskatt
(VIES) – Kontroll av momsregistreringsnummer via följande länk: https://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/vies/#/vat-validation.
Särskilt fall med momsregistreringsnummer för fysiska personer: Om en fysisk person har ett momsregistreringsnummer
därför att han eller hon är frilansare eller enmansföretagare, ange momsregistreringsnummer i fältet för moms. Detta fält är
frivilligt och kan lämnas tomt, men finns om det skulle behövas.
Avsnitt 2: Information om den juridiska personen
Ange uppgifter om den juridiska personen. Den juridiska personen är erkänd i lagen och har rättigheter och skyldigheter.
• Juridisk form: Anger den juridiska personens struktur, såsom ett aktiebolag, ett partnerskap, en ideell organisation,
ett offentligt organ etc.
• Organisationens namn: Den juridiska personens officiella registrerade namn såsom det anges i ett bifogat officiellt
dokument.
Avsnitt 3: Information om den fysiska personen (enbart för enskilda personer)
Om du fyller i detta formulär som en enskild person ange då dina personuppgifter:
• Förnamn: Ditt tilltalsnamn.
• Efternamn: Ditt/dina efternamn.
Avsnitt 4: Adress
Ange de registrerade adressuppgifterna för den juridiska personen eller den enskilda personen: gata, nummer, postnummer,
stad, land. E-post (frivillig uppgift): e-postadressen är bara för kommunikationsändamål. Det är frivilligt att ange
e-postadress.
Avsnitt 5: Bankinformation
Ange dina bankkontouppgifter i detta avsnitt, i överensstämmelse med bifogat intyg om kontoinnehav/kontoutdrag. Ange
uppgifter om den bank och det konto som ska användas för betalningstransaktioner.
• Bankens namn: Bankens eller finansinstitutets officiella namn.
• Kontoinnehavarens namn: Namnet på den fysiska eller juridiska person som innehar bankkontot.
• IBAN-nummer: Internationellt bankkontonummer, ett standardiserat format för att identifiera konton vid
internationella överföringar.
• SWIFT-kod (BIC) En unik kod för att identifiera en viss bank som används vid internationella elektroniska
överföringar.
• Valuta: Den valuta i vilken kontot förs (t.ex. EUR, USD osv.).
• Kontonummer: Om inget IBAN-nummer finns, kryssa för rutan ”Jag har inget IBAN-nummer” för att aktivera detta
fält och ange bankkontonummer.SV
• Annan bankidentifieringsuppgift: Detta fält gör det möjligt att ange ytterligare bankuppgifter som krävs för att
registrera bankkonton från utanför EU, i synnerhet när inget IBAN-nummer finns.
Anmärkning: Om bankkontoinnehavarens adress är en annan än den huvudsakliga adress som angetts ovan för den juridiska
personen/enskilda personen, ange bankkontoinnehavarens adress.
Avsnitt 6: Ingivande och godkännande av formuläret
Den juridiska personens representant måste fylla i detta avsnitt:
• Roll (endast för juridiska personer): Anger den ställning eller funktion som den juridiska personens representant har
(t.ex. ägare, direktör, försäljningschef etc.).
• Datum: Det datum då formuläret fylldes i och skickades in.
Bekräfta att alla angivna uppgifter är korrekta och fullständiga för att försäkra dig om att betalningarna görs till rätt
mottagare. Efter att du har bekräftat låses alla uppgifter för att förhindra fler ändringar.
Avsnitt 7: Nödvändiga handlingar
Bifoga följande handlingar för att bestyrka de uppgifter som lämnats i formuläret så att du kan skicka in det. Se till att alla
uppgifter i formuläret stämmer överens med uppgifterna i dina officiella handlingar för att undvika fördröjningar i
handläggningen.
• Bevis på bankuppgifter
En handling som styrker din bankidentitet: ett intyg om kontoinnehav eller en kopia av ett kontoutdrag (högst sex
månader gammalt) som visar kontoinnehavarens namn, kontonummer/IBAN-nummer/BIC/SWIFT-kod och bankens
namn. Du får dölja annan känslig information.
• Identitetshandlingar
För fysiska personer, en kopia av ditt id-kort eller pass.
För juridiska personer, en kopia av ett officiellt dokument med företagets namn, momsregistreringsnummer och
adress (t.ex. bolagsbevis, företagsregistreringsintyg, utdrag ur handelsregistret, moms-/skatteregistreringsintyg,
utdrag ur ett myndighetsregister eller officiellt register).
Rättsliga bestämmelser
I artikel 86 i Europaparlamentets och rådets förordning (EU, Euratom) 2024/2509 av den 23 september 2024 om finansiella
regler för unionens allmänna budget (omarbetning) anges följande bestämmelser:
Artikel 86.3 – Likviditetsförvaltning
”Innan ett åtagande ingås gentemot en tredje part ska utanordnaren bekräfta betalningsmottagarens identitet, fastställa
betalningsmottagarens rättsliga identitet och betalningsuppgifter och registrera dessa uppgifter i det gemensamma registret för
den unionsinstitution som räkenskapsföraren ansvarar för.
Räkenskapsföraren får bara göra betalningar om betalningsmottagarens rättsliga identitet och betalningsuppgifter har
registrerats i ett gemensamt register för den unionsinstitution som räkenskapsföraren ansvarar för.
Utanordnarna ska informera räkenskapsföraren om de ändringar av rättslig identitet och betalningsuppgifter som
betalningsmottagarna meddelar, och ska verifiera att dessa uppgifter är riktiga innan en betalning godkänns.”EU Funding & Tenders
Online Manual
EU Funding Programmes 2021-2027
Version 1.1
15 September 2022EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
HISTORY OF CHANGES
Publication
Version Changes
date
1.0 08.02.2021  Initial version (document covering all programmes managed
through the Funding & Tenders Portal; updated to the new MFF)
1.1 15.09.2022  Update of hyperlinks.
 Clarifications and updates in sections on:
 Roles and access rights
 Terms and Conditions of Use and Data privacy
 Complaints
 Proposal submission (who can apply; instructions on macro-
supported xlsm documents; special security requirements)
 Work packages and deliverables
 Security scrutiny
2EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Online Manual is a user guide that aims to explain to applicants and beneficiaries how EU grants,
procurements and prizes work and how to manage them electronically in the Funding & Tenders Portal.
The Online Manual is limited to procedural aspects and explaining the functionalities of the IT tools behind
the Portal (roles & access rights, proposal submission and evaluation, grant management, amendments,
etc).
Legal and policy aspects are covered rather in other documentation, such as the Rules for Legal Entity
Validation, LEAR Appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment, EU Grants AGA — Annotated Grant
Agreement (which annotates the provisions of the MGAs) and the Programme Guides that exist for some
EU funding programmes (e.g. Horizon Europe Programme Guide, Erasmus+ Programme Guide, European
Solidarity Corps Programme Guide).
A comprehensive list of all relevant documentation (including legislation, work programmes and calls,
guidance and templates) can be found on Portal Reference Documents.
Terms frequently used are explained in the Portal Glossary.
User questions are covered by the Portal FAQ.
3EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Table of contents
1. My Area — User account and roles ................................................................................. 5
1.1 EU Login ..................................................................................................................... 5
1.2 Roles and access rights ................................................................................................ 6
1.3 Accepting the Terms and Conditions of Use .................................................................. 15
2. Participant Register — Register your organisation ...................................................... 15
2.1 Registration and validation of your organisation ............................................................ 16
2.2 LEAR appointment and validation ................................................................................ 19
2.3 Bank account registration and validation ...................................................................... 21
2.4 Financial capacity assessment ..................................................................................... 22
2.5 Data updates............................................................................................................. 23
2.6 Complaints about validation ........................................................................................ 24
3. Grants .......................................................................................................................... 24
3.1 Applying for funding ................................................................................................... 24
3.1.1 Search funding opportunities — Find a call ............................................................ 24
3.1.2 Projects that can be funded — Conditions for funding ............................................. 28
3.1.3 Apply with partners or as individual ...................................................................... 28
3.1.4 Submit a proposal — Portal Submission System ..................................................... 30
3.1.5 Complaints about failed submission ...................................................................... 38
3.2 Selection — From evaluation to grant signature ............................................................ 38
3.2.1 Admissibility and eligibility check .......................................................................... 38
3.2.2 Evaluation ......................................................................................................... 39
3.2.3 Special procedures: Ethics review, security scrutiny, Ownership control check .......... 43
3.2.4 Grant preparation ............................................................................................... 44
3.2.5 Grant signature .................................................................................................. 51
3.2.6 Complaints about proposal rejection ..................................................................... 54
3.3 Grant management .................................................................................................... 55
3.3.1 Keeping records ................................................................................................. 55
3.3.2 Amendments...................................................................................................... 55
3.3.3 Continuous reporting on milestones & deliverables ................................................. 60
3.3.4 Reports & payment requests ................................................................................ 61
3.3.5 Communicating your project — Acknowledgement of EU funding ............................. 65
3.3.6 Dissemination & exploitation of project results ....................................................... 67
3.3.7 Checks, audits, reviews & investigations ............................................................... 67
3.3.8 Communicating with the Granting Authority .......................................................... 69
4. Procurement ................................................................................................................ 69
5. Prizes ........................................................................................................................... 69
6. Financial instruments .................................................................................................. 69
7. Working as an expert................................................................................................... 69
7.1 Expert registration ..................................................................................................... 71
7.2 Signing a contract and payment .................................................................................. 72
7.3 Experts roles and tasks .............................................................................................. 76
8. Help ............................................................................................................................. 79
4EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
1. My Area — User account and roles
Getting access to My Area
The EU Funding & Tenders Portal (‘Portal’) is the central electronic portal for all EU funding and
tenders.
It is managed by the European Commission and used by itself and other EU services (together
‘EU’) for their grants, prizes and procurements.
The Portal has two parts: A public section with general information (Funding Opportunities,
Reference Documents, etc) and My Area, which is a secured, personalised section (Portal
electronic exchange system) used by the participants for managing their proposals and
grants/contracts.
For security reasons, access to My Area is based on:
• EU Login account — unique identifier for individuals. All you need to open an EU Login
account is your work e-mail address.
• Roles & access rights (Identity and Access Management System — IAM)
• PIC number — unique identifier for organisations. This 9-digit number is received after
you register in the Portal Participant Register.
In My Area you can:
• get access to non-public information on your proposals, projects/contracts,
organisations, etc
• register in the Participant Register and update your organisation/natural person data
• sign contracts, submit reports, cost claims, invoices and receive payments
• communicate with the EU services about your ongoing projects/contracts
• for experts working with the EU services: register, sign contracts, manage tasks, submit
cost claims and receive payments
• for external audit firms working with the EU services: register and manage tasks
Individual users:
• have to register as a user only once
• will be asked to agree to the Portal Terms and Conditions on their first login
• will have specific access rights, depending on their roles in the
organisation/projects/contracts
Organisations:
• will be asked to agree to the Portal Terms and Conditions when they appoint their LEAR.
1.1 EU Login
EU Login provides a single sign-on to a large number of services and tools available on the
Portal.
5EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
To access to the functions available on My Area, you must have an EU Login account.
• To create an EU Login account, you click on the Register button on the Portal homepage;
all you need is your name and work e-mail address.
• If you already have an EU Login account, you must use that one.
EU Login is the new name for the previously used ECAS account (European Commission
Authentication System); old accounts continue to work, there is no need to create new ones.
Creating an EU Login account
Go to the Portal Register page and enter:
• your first name, last name and e-mail address
• the displayed security code.
Select Create an account
You will receive an e-mail to the address that you specified, containing a link you should
use to complete the registration process.
Click the link you will be asked to choose and confirm a password.
Go back to the Portal homepage.
Click on Login and log in with your registered e-mail (user name) address and
password.
Your EU Login password and user name is personal — do NOT share it with colleagues or
anyone else. All transactions made with your account (user name, password) will be considered
as having been made by yourself. Keep your password secure and change it regularly.
Logging in to the Portal with your EU Login account
After logging in, you can use the personalised services and tools available on the Portal.
Your EU Login account gives you only general access to My Area, but it will NOT yet give you
access to project/contract data of your organisation. This access depends on your roles and
access rights.
FAQ
• FAQ on EU Login help page
1.2 Roles and access rights
Roles and access rights restrict the information a user can view and the tasks they can perform
(for instance, only a person with the coordinator role can delete a draft application).
Access rights are linked to a user's roles in the Portal personalised area (My Area), which are
in turn linked to their functions within their organisation or in relation to a particular
project/contract and their nomination by the organisation’s LEAR (or other authorised person).
6EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
How are access rights managed?
Roles are divided into 2 main sections:
• Organisation roles are linked to the whole organisation and its data (but without any
access to the projects/contracts)
• Project/contract roles are defined first in the proposal, and then transferred to the
project/contract when you have been invited to sign with the EU. They are managed
application by application and project by project, covering all types of access
(read/write/submit).
One user can have several roles at the same time.
How are the roles assigned?
Most of these roles can be freely assigned and managed by you or your organisation, according
to your needs:
• you can start creating an application yourself
• you can be invited by other users who have created an application to join their
application
• persons in your organisation can give you (and revoke) access to roles of your
organisation
• the initiator of an application (or persons in your organisation involved in an on-going
application) can give you (and revoke) access to roles in the application
• persons involved in on-going projects/contracts can give you (and revoke) access to
roles in their projects/contracts.
All access rights are linked to the user's EU Login account.
Exceptions
The EU services intervene in the assignment of the following 2 key roles:
LEAR (Legal Entity Appointed Representative) — organisation role
The LEAR is the person that is officially nominated by an organisation to manage rights and
obligations related to the use of the Portal and to act as main administrative and legal contact
in case of issues. Usually, LEARs are staff members in the central administration of the
organisation. The LEAR handles all the organisation-related data on the Portal and appoints the
persons within their organisation that are allowed to electronically sign grants/contracts and
cost claims.
There can only be one LEAR per organisation.
LEARs are validated by the Central Validation Service as part of the registration in the
Participant Register. Learn more about the detailed procedure for appointing the LEAR.
Primary Coordinator Contact — project role
The Main Contact/Contact Point of the Coordinator/Group Leader in the application will become
the PCoCo (Primary Coordinator Contact). This person is by default the one creating the
application in the Portal and thereby becomes the main person responsible for the application.
As such, they can submit requests, reports and notifications to the EU on behalf of the
consortium.
7EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
There can only be one PCoCo per project/contract.
During the application phase and before call deadline, the PCoCo may transfer this role to
someone else in the application.
Afterwards (i.e. after call submission is closed), a new PCoCo can be assigned only by the EU
Project/Procurement Officer. If such a replacement becomes necessary, the Coordinator should
send a request to the Officer via the Portal Messaging Service (My Projects/My Contracts >
Actions > Manage Project/Contract).
Exceptionally — and only until a LEAR has been appointed — self-registrants have certain
roles (that were not assigned to any of the other users listed above).
Roles — Overview
The picture below shows all the roles involved in managing organisations and projects/contracts
in the Portal.
For some funding programmes (e.g. Horizon Europe ERC and MSCA grants), additional roles
are used. See the for more details.
Organisation roles
Legal Entity Appointed Representative (LEAR)
The LEAR is the formally nominated main responsible for an organisation’s use of the Portal and
thus bears the final responsibilty for all the organisation’s actions in the Portal.
LEARs have system rights to:
• update their organisation's data
• nominate/revoke representatives of their organisation to electronically sign
grant/contracts
• nominate/revoke representatives of their organisation to electronically sign cost
claims/invoices
• nominate/revoke Account Administrators within their organisation to help them with
their work.
8EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
The LEAR does NOT assign the Legal Signatories and Financial Signatories for a particular
project/contract. This is done by the Coordinator Contact (CoCo) or Participant Contact (PaCo)
of that project/contract.
Self-registrant
The Self-registrant is the person who first registers an organisation in the Portal Participant
Register.
Before the LEAR is validated, Self-registrants can provide the EU with requested information
and documents about their organisation.
Once the LEAR has been formally validated (normally after the organisation has been validated
by the Central Validation Service), the role of Self-registrant is revoked and replaced by the
LEAR.
Account Administrator
The LEAR may delegate tasks to one or more Account Administrators. Though the LEAR keeps
the full responsibility, Account Administrators can fulfil tasks for their LEAR. An organisation
can have an unlimited number of Account Administrators.
If the organisation nominates a new person as their LEAR, the existing Account Administrators
remain, but can be revoked by the new LEAR.
Legal Signatory (LSIGN)
LSIGNs must be nominated for an organisation by the LEAR or an Account Administrator (see
Figure 3).
LSIGNs are assigned to a particular project by a Coordinator or Participant Contact (see Figure
3). An organisation can have an unlimited number of LSIGNs.
Financial Signatory (FSIGN)
FSIGNs must be nominated for an organisation by the LEAR or an Account Administrator (see
Figure 3).
FSIGNs are assigned to a particular project by a Coordinator or Participant Contact (see Figure
3). An organisation can have an unlimited number of FSIGNs.
Primary Audit Contact (PAuCo) and Audit Contact (AuCo)
Audit roles can be assigned in the Portal only when the organisation is audited.
The LEAR is automatically assigned the Primary Audit Contact (PAuCo), and can nominate other
PAuCos in the organisation.
The PAuCo(s) must also nominate at least one Audit Contact (AuCo) as main contact for audits
on the organisation, and additionally, assign both the AuCo and the audit to an audit team
within the organisation.
PAuCos have the following system rights for their organisation:
• nominate other PAuCo(s) for the organisation and the AuCo(s) for an audit (My
Organisations > Actions > View Roles, click the Roles tab). Detailed explanations are
available in the
• manage the teams in the organisation to assign the audits and the audit contacts to
them (My Organisations > Actions > View Roles, click the Teams tab). Detailed
explanations are available in the
9EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
• revoke other roles
AuCos can nominate other AuCos for the teams to which they are assigned. They can also
revoke other AuCos in their team.
An AuCo assigned to a team has the following system rights for those audits:
• perform the audit tasks for their organisation
• communicate with the EU auditors (receive and send formal notifications, submit audit
documents, etc)
Summary organisation roles
When nominating FSIGNs or LSIGNs, the LEAR can add comments that can help the
Participant Contacts to select the right LSIGN/FSIGN for their project (e.g. "Mr Smith can sign
for projects run by Department X from 1 February 2014."). Such comments can be useful for
defining the scope of responsibilities or duration of FSIGNs or LSIGNs in large organisations
with different departments.
Proposal roles
When preparing your proposal, you will need to define the participating organisations and the
organisation/proposal contact(s). Both are set in the application online form.
For grants and prizes: The proposal will contain the following types of participating
organisations:
• Coordinator. A proposal can have only one, and you may submit an application with just
one Coordinator and no other participating organisations. You need to name a
10EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Coordinator immediately to launch your application, but you can change it later on,
before submission.
• Partner. A proposal can have none, one or more. The number of Partners in an
application (and other aspects such as the country where they are registered, etc) are
subject to the call conditions (i.e. the specific requirements for each call for proposals).
• Partners can also have Affiliated Entities linked to them (through a permanent legal or
capital link or as members of an association; former Linked Third Parties). Affiliated
Entities are allowed to fully participate in the grant and claim costs. They must comply
with all eligibility conditions (same as a Partner).
• Associated Partners. This kind of participating organisation contributes to the project
but cannot claim costs. They are normally not linked to any Partner and do not need to
comply with the eligibility conditions.
Then, you will need to define the contact persons for each participating organisation. There are
two possible types of contacts:
• Main Contact. You need to define one per participating organisation.
• Contact Person. You may define one or more Contact Persons for each Partner. You may
further define their kind of access as Coordinator/Participant Contact (full access) or
Team Member (read-only access).
The roles in your proposal will afterwards become project roles:
• The Main Contact of the Coordinator will become the Primary Coordinator Contact
(PCoCo). This role is automatically assigned to the initiator of the application who
submits the proposal to the EU.
• The Main Contacts of the Partners will become Participant Contacts (PaCo).
• The Contact Persons of the Coordinator/Partners will become Team Members (TeMe) if
they had read-only access in the application form or Participating Contacts (PaCo) if
they had full access.
For tenders:
The tender will contain the following types of participating organisations:
• Group Leader. A submission can have only one, and you may submit a tender with just
one Group Leader and no more participating organisations.
• Group Member. A submission can have none, one or more (often none).
In a call for tenders, you need to provide one single contact: Contact Point. One per application.
This Contact is always linked to the Group Leader.
During the submission phase, this is the only role which will be defined. The Contact Point will
then become the Primary Coordinator Contact (PCoCo).
Project/contract roles
Depending on your project roles you can have read-only, read-write or read-write-submit rights
to information, documents and online forms.
(Primary) Coordinator Contact (PCoCo/CoCo)
The Primary Coordinator Contact is for each project the main contact between the consortium
and the EU for a particular project/contract. By default, it is the person that creates the
application in the Portal.
11EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
The PCoCo can nominate/revoke a Coordinator Contact (CoCo) for the project/contract
(unlimited number possible), who will then have the same rights — except the right to revoke
the PCoCo.
All Coordinator Contacts can:
• nominate/revoke Participant Contacts for other organisations in the consortium
• nominate/revoke Task Managers and Team Members in their own organisation
• assign Legal and Financial Signatories in their organisation to their projects
• make changes to project documents on the Portal
• communicate with the EU services and submit applications and project documents to
the EU.
It is important to list your partner organisations (and their contact persons) relatively early
on in the application process, because this will give them access to the application and allow
them to appoint other roles for their organisation.
Participant Contact (PaCo)
The PaCo is a representative of an organisation in the consortium that is not the coordinating
organisation.
An organisation can have an unlimited number of PaCos per project, and each will be able to:
• nominate/revoke other PaCos in their organisation
• assign Legal and Financial Signatories in their organisation to their projects/contracts
• submit their work to the Coordinator
• nominate/revoke Task Managers and Team Members in their own organisation
• make changes specifically to the participant-related sections of the project documents
on the Portal
• submit information directly to the EU services (if required under the Grant Agreement)
Task Manager (TaMa)
TaMas can perform some restricted actions: creating, updating and uploading documents about
their organisation's participation and completing, modifying or deleting project/contract
information.
An organisation can have an unlimited number of TaMas per project. They cannot nominate or
revoke anybody, nor submit information to the Coordinator or EU.
This role is not used during the application phase.
Team Member (TeMe)
TeMes have limited access rights: search and read-only functions.
Project Legal Signatory (PLSIGN)
The PLSIGN has the right to sign the grant/contract (and amendments) for a specific project on
behalf of the organisation.
12EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
The LEAR (or Account Administrators) must first appoint LSIGNs; the Coordinator and each
participant (PCoCo/CoCos/PaCos) can then assign PLSIGNs for a given project to act as legal
signatory for the participant in the project.
An organisation can have can have an unlimited number PLSIGNs per project.
They have the same rights as CoCos/PaCos for project/contract information. Cannot
assign/revoke any roles.
Project Financial Signatory (PFSIGN)
The PFSIGN has the right to sign cost claims/invoices on behalf of the organisation.
The LEAR (or Account Administrators) must first appoint FSIGNs; the Coordinator and each
participant (PCoCo/CoCos/PaCos) can then assign PFSIGNs for a given project to act as legal
signatory for the participant in the project.
An organisation can have an unlimited number of PFSIGNs per project.
They have the same rights as CoCos/PaCos for project/contract information. Cannot
assign/revoke any roles.
Summary project/contract roles
Rights associated with roles
13EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Nomination process
Some roles are automatically given based on the information in your application:
• The proposal initiator will become the Primary Coordinator Contact (PCoCo).
• The main contact persons in the participating organisations will become Participant
Contacts (PaCos).
• Persons with read-only access to the proposal will become Team Members (TeMes).
Once your organisation is validated by the Central Validation Service, it is important that
you appoint a LEAR to make sure that you can manage the access rights to the Portal.
How to nominate/revoke someone
To grant a role, the LEAR (or other authorised person) must enter the user's e-mail address. It
must be the same as the address the person used to open their EU Login account.
If the person does not already have an EU Login account, they will automatically receive an
invitation to create one.
Organisation roles — to grant/revoke, go to My Organisations > Actions > Edit Organisation
Roles > Add Roles.
Project/contract roles — to grant/revoke, go to My Projects > Actions > Manage Consortium
> Edit Roles.
How many different roles are needed in a consortium?
A user's EU Login account can carry any combination of roles, this depends on the participants.
Thus, a user can acquire a differentiated set of access rights to different functions for managing
projects, contracts or organisation data.
For small organisations or beneficiaries who are individuals (natural persons), this means
that one single person can combine all the access rights needed to manage their
projects/contracts (i.e. LEAR, CoCo/PaCo, PLSIGN and PFSIGN).
The minimum configuration for a consortium in any given project is:
• 1 Primary Coordinator Contact (PCoCo)
14EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
• 1 Participant Contact (PaCo) per beneficiary
• 1 LEAR per organisation
• 1 Project Legal Signatory (PLSIGN) per organisation
• 1 Project Financial Signatory (PFSIGN) per organisation.
One person can have several roles at the same time.
Organisations that participate as Affiliated Entities (or other type of participant — Associated
Partner, Subcontractor, etc) do NOT need any access roles in the Portal, since they are not
allowed to use it. All actions in the Portal are handled for them by the Coordinator/Beneficiary
they are linked to.
FAQ
• FAQ on users' roles and access rights
1.3 Accepting the Terms and Conditions of Use
The Portal is part of the Single Electronic Data Exchange Area set up under Articles 147 and
128 of the EU Financial Regulation.
On the first login to My Area, users must agree to the Portal Terms and Conditions and the
Portal Privacy Statement.
Organisations will be asked to agree to the Terms and Conditions when they appoint their LEAR
(declaration of consent). Every time you access to My Area, you are implicitly reaffirming
your acceptance of the Terms and Conditions valid at that time.
Personal data will be kept and processed for the purposes of the Single Electronic Data Exchange
Area, i.e. for the management and implementation of your EU grants, contracts, prizes and
other transactions managed through the Portal. The detailed conditions for the processing of
your personal data are set out in the Portal Privacy Statement.
2. Participant Register — Register your organisation
15EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
If you want to submit a proposal, your organisation needs to be registered in the Portal
Participant Register and have a 9-digit Participant Identification Code (PIC).
If your proposal is successful, you will receive a notification and be asked to:
• provide supporting documents to confirm the administrative and legal information
declared during the registration (legal entity validation)
• appoint a Legal Entity Appointed Representative (LEAR appointment)
• provide supporting documents to verify the financial capacity of your organisation
(financial capacity assessment, if applicable)
• validate the bank account for payments (bank account validation, only for coordinators).
2.1 Registration and validation of your organisation
Before submitting an application, all participants involved in the proposal must first be
registered in the Portal Participant Register and have their 9-digit Participant Identification Code
(PIC number).
You can verify directly on the Portal whether your organisation is already registered and has a
PIC. If not, please proceed with the registration following the instructions on the same page
(the Registration wizard will help you through the process). Once completed, you get the PIC
to be used in your online application form and further correspondence with the EU services.
If you do not have an user account (EU Login), you will first need to create one, before starting
the registration process. If you already have a user account (EU Login), you can log in and
directly start registration.
Please note that the Participant Register is primarily directed at organisations and that not
all of the labels fit for individuals (natural persons). Enter your information as appropriate (e.g.
country of residence instead of country of registration, passport number instead of registration
number, etc).
What you need to register your organisation
To register your organisation, you will need to provide basic administrative and legal
information, in addition to contact details.
Get ready
Since the declared information will be verified against supporting documents later on, it is
useful to have the relevant documents at hand when you complete the registration, to
make sure you fill in everything correctly (legal form, non-profit, public/private, etc).
16EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Check for already existing PIC
In order to avoid creating duplicate PICs, you should first check whether your organisation
(or another department) is already registered in the Portal and use that PIC.
Go to How to Participate > Participant Register > Search a PIC > Search a PIC and put in
your organisation data. Check several variants to make sure there is really no entry.
If no PIC is registered, start registration
Go to How to Participate > Participant Register > Register your organisation. The
Registration wizard will guide you step-by-step through the process.
Detailed explanations are available in the .
You do not need to complete the registration process in a single session. You can enter some
information, save it and continue later on. To resume your registration, go to My Organisations
> Continue Registration. Incomplete draft registrations are automatically deleted after one
year.
If you create by mistake a new PIC, see below Data updates.
PIC number
After completing a new registration, you will receive the 9-digit Participant Identification
Code (PIC) — to be used in your online application form and further correspondence with the
EU services.
The newly created PIC will be provisional (declared/non-valid status) until it is formally validated
at a later stage.
Nothing else is expected from you after the PIC has been generated, the Central Validation
Service will contact you later, to initiate the validation process.
Validation of your organisation
If your proposal is successful, you will be contacted for the validation of your PIC
registration data.
Validation is needed only for certain types of participants (grants: Beneficiaries and Affiliated
Entities; procurement: Contractors). It is not needed for Associated Partners, Subcontractors
or other participants.
It will be done by the Central Validation Service which carries out the validation for all EU
services using the Portal.
The Central Validation Service will contact the person who registered the organisation (Self-
registrant) and ask them to:
• upload official supporting documents (via the My Organisations page)
• clarify any details.
The documents that are required will be listed in the notification you receive. You will need to
fill out a legal entity identification form and provide us with an official VAT document,
registration extract, statutes or act of establishment, etc. The detailed list of documents is also
17EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
explained in the Rules on Legal Entity Validation, LEAR appointment and Financial Capacity
Assessment.
The Central Validation Service will check that your organisation is legally recognised (has legal
personality). If this is not the case (exceptionally this is allowed), you will have to prove that
the representatives have the capacity to undertake legal obligations on the organisation’s behalf
and that the organisation has financial and operational capacity equivalent to that of legal
persons.
The Central Validation Service will also check whether your organisation qualifies for some of
the special legal statuses that are required for some funding programmes (private or public
body, non-profit, international organisation).
The outcome of this process is the validation of your organisation (validated PIC). The Central
Validation Service will send a confirmation message once the process is completed and the PIC
is validated.
Please don’t forget that all communications with the Central Validation Service must take
place through the Participant Register (My Organisations page). Emails and other
communications will NOT be accepted.
Please also note that if you apply for a call with specific eligibility criteria that are not validated
by the Central Validation Service, these will be checked by the responsible EU service managing
the call — in addition to the validation, which means that they may come back to you with
additional questions.
Validation of the organisation is a prerequisite for the LEAR appointment.
Data updates
Updates to the registered organisation data must be requested via the Participant Register (My
Organisations > Actions > Modify Organisation):
• by the LEAR (or Account Administrators) for validated entities
• by the Self-registrant if your organisation has not been validated yet.
If your organisation has already a validated PIC and a new one is created by mistake, your
LEAR or Account Administrator should contact the Central Validation Service via the Portal
Messaging Facility (My Organisations > Actions > Modify Organisation). The information will be
transferred from the duplicate PIC to the correct PIC and the duplicate flagged.
SME self-assessment
In addition to the standard validation, a SME self-assessment is needed if you apply for a call
where SME status is an eligibility criterion (or allows for a higher funding rate or other
advantages).
If there is no recent (not older than 2 years) SME self-assessment information available in the
Participant Register, the Portal Submission System will automatically prompt you to go through
the SME self-assessment wizard to establish your SME status. You will need to enter the
financial figures of the last approved accounting period of your organisation and of any other
organisation that might be directly or indirectly related to you. If the result confirms your SME
status, you will be able to proceed with the application process.
Please note that the SME self-assessment is only needed if the SME-status is an eligibility
criterion (or gives special advantages); otherwise, you will simply self-declare your SME status
in the Legal Information tab and proceed with the registration.Detailed rules are explained in
the Rules on Legal Entity Validation, LEAR appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment.
18EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Links
• Rules on Legal Entity Validation, LEAR appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
• Participant Register: User Guide
FAQ
• FAQ on Participant Register, organisation data management and SME-self-assessment
2.2 LEAR appointment and validation
Parallel to the validation of your organisation, you will be requested by the Central Validation
Service to appoint your Legal Entity Appointed Representative (LEAR).
This must be done by a legal representative of your organisation with the necessary legal
authority to commit the organisation for this type of decisions (e.g. typically CEOs, rectors,
Director-Generals, etc... always in accordance with the statutes of your organisation). If
such decisions are normally reserved for joint decision-making by several representatives, the
appointment must be done together (documents signed by all).
The LEAR role, which can be performed by any member of the organisation (typically from the
central administration), is key. They are formally nominated to manage your organisation’s use
of the Portal and thus bear the final responsibilty for all your actions in the Portal. Once
validated, they will be responsible for:
• keeping an overview of all the proposals/projects/contracts your organisation is involved
in
• managing all the legal and financial information about your organisation
• managing the access rights at organisation-level (and read-only access at project-level)
• appointing the persons which will be able to electronically sign grants/contracts (Legal
Signatories — LSIGNs) and cost claims/invoices (Financial Signatories — FSIGNs).
Applicants that are natural persons do not need to prove their capacity to become a LEAR, but
still need to enter their LEAR data and submit supporting documents.
Further details about the LEAR's rights and responsibilities are explained in the Roles and access
rights section.
Appointing and validation of your LEAR
Please note that registration and validation of your organisation is a prerequisite for the
validation of your LEAR.
Identify the person in your organisation who will act as LEAR and the legal
representative who will appoint them
The person who initially registered the organisation in the Participant Register (the Self-
registrant) will receive the notification from the Central Validation Service to launch the
LEAR appointment procedure.
Encode in the Participant Register the name and contact information of the
LEAR and the legal representative appointing them
19EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
To do so, the Self-registrant must go to My Organisations > Actions > Modify Organisation.
The Participant Register will, then, generate the necessary documents to be signed:
• LEAR appointment letter and LEAR role and duties (generated as a single document)
• declaration of consent to the Portal Terms & Conditions.
The system will automatically check the existence of an EU Login account for the LEAR (e-
mail address, first and last name). In case of inconsistencies, the system alerts the Self-
registrant. If no EU Login account exists, the system will start creating one and the LEAR
will be requested (via a notification e-mail) to finalise it. The LEAR appointment process
will be blocked until this is done.
Get your organisation's legal representative to:
• date, sign and stamp the LEAR appointment letter & LEAR roles and duties
document generated by the system ( both sections must be signed)
• read the Portal Terms and Conditions and
• date, sign and stamp the declaration of consent to the Portal Terms and Conditions.
Upload the following documents in the Participant Register:
• the LEAR appointment letter & LEAR role and duties (dated and signed by the legal
representative and the LEAR)
• the declaration of consent to the Portal Terms and Conditions (dated and signed by
the legal representative)
• copies of an official valid proof of identity (ID-card, passport) with a photo and
signature of:
the legal representative and
o
the appointed LEAR
o
• documents proving the authority of the legal representative; these documents
must:
clearly indicate the person’s role/function within the organisation as legal
o
representative
identify and appoint the individual (by name) as the person covering that
o
specific role/function.
Don't forget that you MUST keep the originals of all documents you uploaded, so that
they are available in case of EU controls, checks or audits. Since your registration in the
Participant Register is valid for this and any future EU funding and tenders procedures your
organisation will ever apply for, the originals must be kept permanently, as long as you are
registered in the Portal (and possibly beyond, for controls, checks and audits, etc). You
should therefore NOT throw them away and ensure that they are maintained also in case
of insolvency, takeover or change of control.
Validation of the LEAR appointment by the Central Validation Service
20EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
After receiving the above-listed documents and once the corresponding PIC has been
validated, the Central Validation Service will also validate the LEAR appointment in the
Participant Register.
Activate the LEAR's online user account
After validation, the LEAR account (with the special access rights) can be be activated by:
• following the instructions the LEAR receives by e-mail
• using the account activation PIN code which will be sent to the LEAR by post, or
by SMS if the LEAR's mobile phone number was provided
Should you encounter any problems with the LEAR appointment, please contact the Central
Validation Service via the Portal Messaging Facility (My Organisations > Actions> Modify
Organisation).
Data updates — Changing the LEAR
If you need to replace an already validated LEAR, you can designate a new LEAR by making a
new appointment (same steps as initial appointment).
If you are a LEAR and your e-mail address has changed, please inform the Central Validation
Service via the Portal Messaging Facility (My Organisations > Actions > Modify Organisation),
in order to obtain instructions on how to proceed for the change.
How can you contact the LEAR?
For contacting LEARs of other organisations, go to How to participate > Participant Register >
Search a PIC to find the organisation. Then, select Actions > Contact Organisation. This will
launch a contact form that allows you to send a message to the LEAR (and their Account
Administrators). The LEAR can then contact you directly.
To contact your own LEAR, log in and then go to My Organisations > Actions > Contact
Organisation.
Links
• Rules on Legal Entity Validation, LEAR appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
FAQ
• FAQ on LEAR appointment
2.3 Bank account registration and validation
Registration and validation of the bank account for payments
In addition to the validation of the participating organisations, we also have to validate the bank
account that will be used for our payments to you (usually bank account of the Coordinator).
The Central Validation Service will contact the Coordinator after the PIC is validated, to enter
the bank account details into the Participant Register and upload the necessary supporting
documents (My Organisations > Actions > Modify Organisation).
The documents required will be listed in the notification you receive. In general, you will need
to provide the bank account details and either a bank statement or financial identification form.
21EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
The Central Validation Service will cross-check this information and validate the account.When
registering your organisation for the first time, you do not need to declare any bank account
information. You will be prompted to do this only later on, if your proposal is successful.
Data updates
If you need to change an already validated bank account, please declare the new bank account
details via the Participant Register and upload the required supporting documents.
Please note that it can happen that not all types of modifications are supported. In case of an
issue, please contact the IT Helpdesk.
2.4 Financial capacity assessment
Assessment of your financial capacity
For some participants, we will also have to check the financial capacity before awarding
grants/contracts.
For grants, the criteria for checking financial capacity are set out in the call conditions.
Normally, the financial capacity assessment will be done for all Beneficiaries and Affiliated
Entities, except:
− public bodies (entities established as public body under national law, including local,
regional or national authorities) or international organisations
− if the individual requested grant amount is EUR 60 000 or below.
Specific rules apply for some programmes (i.e. only for coordinators; only for grants above a
certain threshold; State guarantee; see Horizon Europe Programme Guide, Erasmus+
Programme Guide).
The Central Validation Service will contact you during grant preparation to upload the necessary
financial documents (My Organisations > Actions > Modify Organisation).
The documents required will be listed in the notification you receive. In general, you will need
to provide documents showing your financial situation for the last two closed financial years
(profit and loss account and balance sheet, business plan, audit report produced by an approved
external auditor, certifying the accounts for the last closed financial year, etc).
The analysis is based on neutral financial indicators (liquidity, financial autonomy, solvency and
profitability), but will also take into account other aspects, such as dependency on EU funding
and deficit and revenue in previous years. The results of your financial capacity assessment will
be taken into account when evaluating your ability to implement the project (and to take on
the Coordinator role, if it is the case).
If we consider that your financial capacity is not satisfactory, we may require:
– an enhanced financial responsibility regime, i.e. joint and several liabiliy for all
Beneficiaries or joint and several liability of Affiliated Entities
– prefinancing paid in instalments (multiple/additional prefinancing)
– (one or more) prefinancing guarantees
or
– propose no prefinancing or
– request that you are replaced or, if needed, reject the entire application.
22EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Specific rules apply to programmes with Mutual Insurance Mechanism (MIM, former Participant
Guarantee Fund; e.g. Horizon Europe). For these programmes, prefinancing guarantees and
joint and several liability of Beneficiaries are normally excluded.
Financial capacity self-check
You can check your financial capacity yourself by using the Financial capacity self-check
simulator.
The self-check is not available for all programmes (because of the algorithms used).
Moreover, it is only a simulation. If a formal financial capacity assessment is required, you will
have to go through the formal procedure.
Links
• Rules on Legal Entity Validation, LEAR appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
2.5 Data updates
Who can update the online information about your organisation?
• Initially, only the person who first registered the organisation or any other appointed
Self-registrant
• once appointed, only the appointed representative (LEAR) and appointed Account
Administrators.
To change the information on your organisation, go to My Organisations > Actions > Modify
Organisation.
Please upload legal/financial supporting documents for any updates you submit so that the
Central Validation Service can validate them. Maximum size for uploads: 6MB per file
Changes of legal status
If your organisation changes status or address, your LEAR should immediately update the
information in the Participant Register (My Organisations > Actions > Modify Organisation) and,
if possible, directly inform (via your Coordinator) your EU Project Officers in ongoing grants
(Coordinator uses the Portal Messaging Facility: My Projects > Actions > Manage Project >
Process communications > New message).
Some changes like, for instance, partial or universal transfers of rights will moreover require
amendments in case you have ongoing Grant Agreements/Procurement Contracts.
Managing roles in the organisation
If organisation roles need to be changed, your LEAR should immediately update them in the
system (My Organisations > Actions > Edit Organisation Roles)
If project/contract roles need to be changed, your CoCo/PaCo should immediately update them
in the system (My Projects > Actions > Project Consortium).
If grants/contracts or cost claims/invoices are signed in the system by persons whose access
rights should have been revoked, this will be your responsibility and you will have to bear the
consequences. Their signatures and other actions will be considered valid by the EU services.
23EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Links
• Rules on Legal Entity Validation, LEAR appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
2.6 Complaints about validation
If you believe that a validation result is flawed, you can submit a complaint (following the
deadline and procedure set out in the message on the validation result).
Generally, the means of redress are the following:
• request for validation review — within 30 days of receiving the message
• request for review of legality under Article 22 of Regulation 58/2003 — within 1 month
of receiving the message (using the Article 22 complaints form template)
• action for annulment under Article 263 TFEU — within 2 months of receiving the
message.
You are free to choose any of the above means of redress. However, in the interest of good
administration and procedural efficiency, it is recommended to use first the available
administrative review procedures (if any). The objective of these procedures is to re-examine
the circumstances of the validation procedure and to reach a final decision on your registration.
Deadlines for further redress will therefore run as from when you receive our reply with the
final position.
Please note that notifications which have not been opened within 10 days after sending are
considered to have been accessed and that deadlines will be counted from opening/access (see
Portal Terms and Conditions).
When filing a complaint, please take into account that the formal decision was taken by the
Central Validation Service hosted in the REA executive agency, and that complaints must
therefore be directed against that agency (NOT against the European Commission).
In case you consider that there has been maladministration on the part of the Central Validation
Service, you can also address a complaint to the European Ombudsman — within 2 years after
you became aware of it AND after having used all the means of administrative redress available
(validation review and Article 22 request).
3. Grants
3.1 Applying for funding
3.1.1 Search funding opportunities — Find a call
The Portal is the single point of entry for all EU funding and tenders, i.e. grants, prizes and
procurements managed by the European Commission and other EU services.
The Portal currently hosts the following EU funding programmes:
MFF 2021-2027
Anti-Counterfeiting (PERICLES IV)
Anti-Fraud (EUAF)
Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF)
Border Management and Visa (BMVI)
24EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Citizens, Equality, Rights and Values (CERV)
Civil Protection (UCPM)
Connecting Europe Facility (CEF)
Creative Europe (CREA)
Customs Control Equipment (CCEI)
Defence (EDF)
Digital Europe
Environment and Climate Action (LIFE)
Erasmus+
EU External Action (RELEX)
Eu4Health
European Social Fund + (ESF)
European Solidarity Corps (ESC)
Fiscalis
Horizon Europe (including Euratom)
Humanitarian Aid (HA)
Information Measures Common Agricultural Policy (IMCAP)
Innovation Fund (INNOVFUND)
Internal Security Fund (ISF)
Justice Programme (JUST)
Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund (EMFAF)
Pilot Projects and Preparatory Actions
Promotion of Agricultural Products (AGRIP)
Renewable Energy Financing Mechanism
Research Fund for Coal & Steel (RFCS)
Single Market (including COSME, Consumers, European Statistics)
Social Prerogative and Specific Competencies Lines (SOCPL)
Technical Support (TSI)
MFF 2014-2020
Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF)
Civil Protection (UCPM)
Consumer Programme
COSME
Defence and Industrial Development (EDIDP)
European Statistics (ESP)
Health (3HP)
Hercule III
Horizon 2020 (H2020)
Internal Security Fund – Borders and Visa (ISFB)
25EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Internal Security Fund – Police (ISFP)
Justice (JUST)
Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF)
Pilot Projects and Preparatory Actions
Promotion of Agricultural Products (AGRIP)
Research Fund for Coal & Steel (RFCS)
Rights, Equality and Citizenship (REC)
You can access calls and topics in your area of interest through the Portal Search funding &
tenders page. This page allows you to search in the text of the call and topic titles, call and
topic identifiers, topic description and keywords and tags. You can also filter using the quick
search per topics related to specific EU priorities.
If you would like to receive updates on new calls, you can subscribe to the Funding Opportunities
RSS feed.
The Search funding & tenders page also hosts calls for tenders (EU procurements) and prizes.
It does NOT cover financial instruments (EU loans and venture capital) — these are normally
managed through financial partners (banks), but the Portal homepage has a direct link to the
Access to finance page on Europa.
Calls and topics
On the Portal most calls are divided into topics.
Call — Group of topics that are open in parallel and address the same policy domain.
Topic — Part of a call with one opening and closing date. The proposals submitted to the topic
will be evaluated together and compete against each other.
The Search funding & tenders page will display the list of open topics; the name of the call they
belong to is visible on the Topic page.
The Topic page contains all the information you need to have for your proposal (call conditions,
legal framework and key documents, standard application form and other practical information
you need to prepare your proposal). The Topic page also specifies the call deadline and contains
a link to the Portal Submission System, through which you can submit your proposal. The
Topic page also contains call and topic updates (changes or important information for the
applicants).
Deadline for submission
A topic is considered open until the deadline for submission has passed (call deadline).
Each topic will specify deadlines and/or cut-off dates.
Deadline models
Single-stage
For most topics, you must submit a full proposal by the call deadline.
Two-stage
26EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Some topics have a 2-stage submission procedure, which means that you have to submit a
short outline proposal for stage 1 and then a full proposal only if you are invited to stage 2
(meaning that your project looks promising).
Multiple cut-off
Some topics are continuously open, where you can submit a proposal at any time, and cut-
off dates mean that all proposals received by a given cut-off date will be evaluated after that
deadline.
Types of action
Types of action designate funding schemes, i.e. calls with the same characteristics: policy
domain (scope of funded activities), award criteria, reimbursement rate and in some cases form
of funding (budget-based grant, lump sum grant, unit grant, prize, procurement, debt and
equity facility, etc).
The types of action depend on each EU programme.
There are two main types: action grants (for projects) and operating grants (to support
organisations and their running costs).
In addition, most programmes distinguish the following:
• Project Grants
• Lump Sum Grants
• Unit Grants and
• Framework Partnerships.
However, especially larger programmes have developed their own specific set of types of action,
for instance:
• Horizon Europe: Research and Innovation Actions, Innovation Actions, Coordination and
Support Actions, Pre-commercial Procurements, Public Procurement of Innovative
Solutions, etc
• Digital Europe: Simple Grants, Coordination and Support Actions, SME Support Actions,
Grants for Financial Support, Grants for Procurement, PAC Grants for Procurement,
Lump Sum Grants, Framework Partnerships
• CEF: Project Grants, Infrastructure Projects, Lump Sum Grants, Unit Grants, Framework
Partnerships
• Single Market Programme: Project Grants, Lump Sum Grants, Grants for Financial
Support, PPI Grants for Procurement, Framework Partnerships, European Statistics, etc.
Within the types of actions, EU grants fund all kinds of activities (collaborative actions,
coordination and networking actions, coordination and support actions, support to
organisations, technical assistance and capacity building actions, mobility actions, cofund
actions to existing grant schemes/procurements of the beneficiaries, infrastructure actions,
etc).
Technology readiness levels (TRL)
Calls in the field of innovation (close to market) often use the notion of technology readiness
level to specify also the level of technology readiness that is expected from the projects. There
are 9 technology readiness levels:
27EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
• TRL 1 — basic principles observed
• TRL 2 — technology concept formulated
• TRL 3 — experimental proof of concept
• TRL 4 — technology validated in lab
• TRL 5 — technology validated in relevant environment
• TRL 6 — technology demonstrated in relevant environment
• TRL 7 — system prototype demonstration in operational environment
• TRL 8 — system complete and qualified
• TRL 9 — actual system proven in operational environment.
3.1.2 Projects that can be funded — Conditions for funding
The types of projects and activities that can be funded are set out for each call in the call
conditions on the Topic page.
The other conditions (eligibility of participants, admissibility requirements, exclusion grounds,
operational and financial capacity requirements, award criteria, etc) are also explained on the
Topic page.
Please note that for some programmes (e.g. Horizon Europe, EDF and AMIF), projects may
need to undergo additional checks and procedures before funding can be awarded, such as
specific ethics review, security scrutiny, third country control check, etc.
3.1.3 Apply with partners or as individual
Who can apply?
To see whether your organisation is eligible for funding, check the call conditions on the Topic
page.
In general, most EU funding programmes require that participants (Beneficiaries and Affiliated
Entities) are:
• legal entities (public or private bodies, including international organisations)
and
• established in one of the eligible countries, i.e.:
EU Member State (including EU overseas countries and territories (OCTs))
o
eligible non-EU countries:
o
EEA countries (Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway — if opted-in for the
o
programme)
associated countries (countries associated to the funding programme by
o
paying a contribution — list differs for each programme).
Please be aware, however, that almost all programmes have additional criteria, which
widen or narrow the group of entities that can apply. Some programmes are open to participants
from the entire world (e.g. Horizon Europe) others are deliberately restricted to EU countries
only (e.g. EDF). In addition, the situation can be different from call to call even within a
programme. It is therefore very important to carefully look at the call conditions.
Moreover, participants must be registered in the Participant Register (mandatory for
Beneficiaries, Affiliated Entities and Associated Partners) and be validated by the Central
28EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Validation Service by the time the grant is signed (mandatory for Beneficiaries and Affiliated
Entities).
Multi-participant or mono-participant actions
Most of the calls for EU grants target multi-beneficiary consortia made up of participants from
different countries — to enhance the EU added value, promote cooperation between
organisations in different countries, reinforce the quality of applications and ensure fair
competition and equal opportunities throughout the EU.
Some programmes formalise this, by adding specific requirements for the consortium
composition (e.g. Horizon Europe, UCPM, etc).
To see whether a call requires minimum consortium composition, check the call conditions on
the Topic page.
How to find partners for your project ideas?
To find partners for your project ideas, you can:
• Use the Partner Search function of the Portal. The function allows to:
look for organisations which received funding in the past
o
create and check Partner Search requests by call/topic
o
• Use other Partner Search tools and services. A list of recommended support sites is
offered under the Helpdesks & Support Services page.
• Participate in conferences, brokerage events organised by the EU or networks in the
Member States (National Contact Points or Desks, Enterprise Europe Network, etc).
Portal Partner Search
If you want to find experienced partners who already have ongoing projects, or if you want to
browse in the database of registered organisations, visit the Partner Search page. You can
search by keyword/geographical area/funding type, etc. Search results include complete
organisation profiles with lists of funded projects and the possibility to contact representatives.
If you have selected your area of interest via the Topic search, you may publish your
offer/interest for one or more of the open/forthcoming topics of a call on the Portal. All your
published offers/interests will be visible on your organisation's page too.
Enterprise Europe Network Cooperation Opportunities Database — The Enterprise Europe
Network (EEN) publishes an extensive number of innovation and technology profiles from
international companies and research organisations to help identify suitable partners for
bilateral business, innovation and technology cooperation. The EEN database is updated with
new profiles on a weekly basis. All profiles are published anonymously. Express your interest in
collaboration by filling in and sending the Expression of Interest form to your local EEN office,
who will establish the contact.
Consortium roles and responsibilities
When setting up your grant consortium, you should think of organisations that help you reach
objectives and solve problems.
29EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Beneficiaries — Affiliated Entities — Associated Partners —
Subcontractors
The roles should be attributed according to the level of participation in the project. Main
participants should participate as Beneficiaries or Affiliated Entities (former Linked Third
Parties); other entities can participate as Associated Partners, Subcontractors, Third parties
giving in-kind contributions, etc.
Associated Partners and Third parties giving in-kind contributions do not get any part
of the grant money and will therefore have to organise other funding sources (bear their own
costs, internal reallocation of funding inside the consortium, find investors, etc).
Subcontracting should normally constitute a limited part of the project and will need to
be justified (give reasons). Tasks may NOT be subcontracted inside the consortium (between
Beneficiaries or Affiliated Entities).
Coordinator — Other Beneficiaries
The Coordinator is responsible for managing the project, submitting reports and deliverables
and acting as intermediary for all contacts with the EU Granting Authority.
The other Beneficiaries must implement their part of the project and contribute to the grant
administration (preparing the grant, reporting, etc).
The consortium participants will be jointly responsible for implementing the project activities
(in accordance with their proposal/description of the action). If a project is not finished (or badly
implemented), the grant money may have to be reduced for everyone.
3.1.4 Submit a proposal — Portal Submission System
Proposal submission
Proposals must be submitted electronically using the Portal Submission System.
Where? Access to the Submission System is available through the Topic page on the Portal>
Start Submission.
Who? Proposals must be created and submitted by a contact person of the coordinating
organisation. Exceptions exist for some programmes/types of action which are fully focused on
individuals (e.g. the Principal Investigator in Horizon Europe ERC grants or the Fellow in Horizon
Europe MSCA grants).
How? The Submission wizard will guide you step-by-step through the process. You will need
to use the online forms and templates available in the Submission System. The application form
is described below.
Submission process
Get prepared: Finding your topic > Find partners > Plan your work and budget
Electronic proposal submission: Get an EU Login account > Get a PIC number (Participant
Register) > Launch Submission wizard > Pre-register your draft proposal > List participants,
contact persons > Fill in Administrative Forms (Part A) > Upload Technical Description (Part B)
> Submit your proposal > Acknowledgement of receipt
Application form (Part A and B)
30EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Proposals are submitted using the application forms available in the Submission System. The
application form is structured in into two parts, Parts A and B:
• Part A: contains the structured Administrative Forms with data on the participants, legal
declarations and contact persons (retrieved from the Submission System screens). It
may also include some programme-specific questions.
• Part B (the narrative part): Technical Description of the project with the planned
activities, work packages, costs, etc (must be uploaded as PDF).
Part A is generated while entering the data into the Submission System; Part B needs to be
prepared in advance (using the template downloaded from the system; do NOT use the standard
template from the Topic page).
Part B will also include annexes and supporting documents if required by the call conditions
(detailed budget table, declarations from national authorities, CVs, annual activity reports, etc).
All participants can contribute to the parts, but it is the person from the coordinating
organisation who created the application who must finalise and submit the application.
For programmes with specific security requirements, special instructions may apply (e.g. for
EDF, documents must be uploaded through a password-word protected zip file). For such
programmes, detailed instructions will be available in the call documentation.
Tasks of the Coordinator:
• Mandate: Make sure that you have the mandate of all participants to submit the
application (explicit agreement to participate).
• Quality check:
Check that the application is coherent and that Part A and B are consistent (especially
budgetary information).
Make sure that the template has been followed and all sections are completed; make
sure that no annexes are missing.
Confidentiality
EU services will treat your proposal confidentially, as well as any related information, data
and documents received.
Our evaluators (both in-house and outside experts, if any) are also bound by an obligation of
confidentiality.
Please do NOT discuss your proposal with persons that might act as expert evaluator for us
or be otherwise involved in the evaluation, since this could lead to a conflict of interest with
adverse consequences both for you and the concerned person.
Security, data protection and document retention
Your proposal and all the information received from you will be stored under secure conditions
at all times. The Portal is a closed, secured platform with multiple safeguards.
After the evaluation, we will keep the proposals for audit trail purposes (at least 5 years for
unsuccessful proposals and 10 years after project end for successful proposals and, possibly,
longer if needed for controls, checks and audit purposes).
Personal data will be handled according to the standards set out in Regulation No 2018/1725
and in line with the Portal Privacy Statement.
31EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Please be aware that your proposal MUST NOT contain any classified information (Decision
2015/444 or national rules).
Access to proposals
The proposals will remain sealed and closed until after the call deadline.
However, in order to plan the evaluation process (organise translations, evaluation capacities,
evaluators with specialist knowledge, etc) we will ask you for permission to access to certain
information already before:
• call title and topic for which the proposal is submitted
• title of your application, proposal abstract, keywords
• PICs of the participating organisations
• relevant panel (for proposals submitted to specific panels, e.g. Horizon Europe MSCA,
UCPM).
A warning will inform you that the Granting Authority will be accessing this information and
will give you the opportunity to refuse access.
Links
• Proposal Submission Service: User Manual
FAQ
• FAQ on Proposal submission and evaluation
3.1.4.1 Get prepared
Before you can start completing your application, you should study the call documentation,
select partners and plan your project.
Study the call documentation
Choose your topic, and then read carefully the related documents and standard
templates that are available on the Topic page.
The Submission System will check some basic admissibility and eligibility requirements,
but NOT all of them. It is therefore very important that you carefully read the call
conditions. Please note that whenever there is a contradiction between the IT checks in
place and the call documentation, the call documentation prevails.
Select your partners for the project
Most calls require several participants in the proposal (see call conditions on the Topic
page).
You can use the Portal Partner Search to find partners. Other partner search tools are
explained in the Helpdesk & Support Services page.
Plan your project and prepare the Technical Description (Part B)
Planning of the work (work packages, deliverables, milestones)
32EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Look at the call conditions, award criteria and standard application form (Technical
Description (Part B)) on the Topic page.
For most types of action the Technical Description must give a detailed description of the
project idea and work plan (work packages, milestones and deliverables, division of
responsibilities and resources, time schedule, project management structure,
dissemination and communication activities).
Work packages
All project activities should be grouped in a logical, consistent and structured way into
separate work packages. All work packages must present a clear, logical link to the
project objectives and to the other work packages. Ideally, each work package should
constitute a sub-part of the project, a step leading to the achievement of the project’s
overall goals.
Projects should normally have at least 2 work packages:
− work package 1 — management and coordination activities
− work package 2 — outputs related to the project goals.
Beyond that, create only as many as you need (as many as necessary, as few as
possible).
Work package 1 should normally cover all activities related to the general management
and coordination of the project and any activities that do not relate to any of the work
packages leading to a specific result, but which are directly linked to the project as a whole.
For the other work packages, describe the:
• objective(s)
• activities to be implemented — in specific terms
• (tangible and intangible) outputs to be produced.
Milestones & deliverables (if required)
Concerning the outputs:
1. Distinguish between milestones and deliverables:
− milestones: control points in the project that help to chart progress (kick-
off meetings, steering committes, first-draft of a survey, prototype, etc)
− deliverables: outputs to be submitted to the EU (publication, leaflet,
progress report, brochure, list, etc)
2. Be as specific as possible, e.g.:
− events — the number of events, title, content, duration, number of
participants, etc.
− publications — number of pages, language, format (printed/electronic),
number of printed copies (in each language), etc.
3. Be realistic about what you can achieve within the project duration. The scope of
your project should be large enough to make a difference, but it doesn't need to produce
an excessively high number of outputs.
4. Refer only to major outputs. Do NOT include minor sub-items, internal working
papers, meeting minutes, etc. Adapt the number of deliverables to the size of your
33EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
project and work packages (use as many as necessary, as few as possible). You may
be asked to reduce or increase the number during grant preparation.
Budget
Look at the budget table in the Administrative Forms (Part A) in the Submission System.
Only the white cells need to be filled in (the grey cells are not applicable or automatically
filled by the system).
Cross-check with Part B to see if you will also need to submit a detailed budget table or
outline budgetary details also in Part B.
The budget categories to be used for the call are set out in the call conditions and explained
in the AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement.
The budgeted costs should be based on a detailed and accurate estimation of your
estimated project costs (based on the cost eligibility rules set out in the Grant Agreement).
They should include all your estimated costs (those of your Affiliated Entities should be
presented separately, for each participating entity).
Keep your estimates on file — you may be required to produce them later on.
Annexes & supporting documents
If required by the call conditions, you will need to prepare additional annexes and
supporting documents (consortium description, declarations by the national authorities,
CVs, annual activity reports, etc).
Use the templates provided inside the Submission System (NOT the ones on the Topic
page).
Detailed budget table (if required)
Many programmes require the submission of a detailed budget table (templates are usually
in format .xlsx or .xlxm).
Simple .xlsx files can simply be filled-in, merged and uploaded. For .xlsm files, you can
usually — after the table has been filled-in and completed using the macro-support — save
a copy as .xlsx and use that copy for merging and uploading the file.
If you are asked to merge and upload a table as PDF (usually for needed for GAP), please
proceed as follows:
Sheets per participant must be filled in for each Beneficiary/Affiliated Entity; sheets for
the entire project must be filled in by the Coordinator — after having received all the
information by the other participants.
Combine into a single PDF:
1. Save participant sheets into one PDF per Beneficiary/Affiliated Entity (choose
sheets via ‘Options’ when saving as PDF)
2. Save participant sheets and project sheets into a PDF for the Coordinator.
3. Combine into a single PDF for upload (using Adobe Acrobat or the Preview App
on Apple Macs).
4. Upload in the system.
CVs (if required)
Provide CVs for the core project team (these are the key staff you have listed in part B and
may include outside experts, if key to your proposal).
34EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
You can submit CVs in any format. If standard CVs are required in the call conditions we
strongly recommend you to use the Europass format. If short outlines are requested, there
are no specific formatting requirements (but please keep the information on each person
to name, birthdate and 1-2 paragraphs describing studies and most relevant work
experience).
As far as possible, upload them in a single PDF file, rather than individually.
If you are still recruiting, please provide the job profile.
Activity report of last year (if required)
This report should describe your organisation's activities for the last year.
It should be detailed enough to allow us to check your organisation’s aims and activities
and its operational and professional capacity.
No finalised annual report yet? Submit the draft version, certified by your organisation's
legal representative.
No report of this type available? Create one for this application and have it certified by your
legal representative.
Online versions — If your report is available on your website, you can just provide a link
(directly to the document(s), not simply to the homepage) and indicate the link on a
separate sheet and upload it as annex (PDF format).
3.1.4.2 Electronic proposal submission
Electronic proposal submission: Get an EU Login account > Get a PIC number (Participant
Register) > Launch Submission wizard > Pre-register your draft proposal > List participants,
contact persons > Fill in Administrative Forms (Part A) > Upload Technical Description (Part B)
> Submit your proposal > Acknowledgement of receipt
Proposals must be submitted online using the Portal Submission System and before the call
deadline.
Details are explained in the .
Actions to be completed before submission
Create your user account to login to the Portal
To be able to submit a proposal, you must first register on the Portal for an EU Login account.
Make sure all participants are registered (PIC)
All participants (Beneficiaries, Affiliated Entities and Associated Partners) must be
registered in the Participant Register and have their 9-digit Participant Identification Code
(PIC). The Coordinator has to be identified with its PIC number at Step 3 of the Submission
wizard, while other participants at Step 4.
Read more about registration and PIC search in the Registration and validation of your
organisation section.
Submitting the application
35EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
The Submission wizard will guide you step-by-step through the process.
Detailed explanations are available in the .
Do not forget to check the system requirements for using the Submission System.
Launch the Submission wizard and enter information for the Administrative
Forms (application form (Part A))
Go to the topic on the Search funding & tenders page > Start Submission.
Upload Part B (Technical Description) and annexes and supporting documents
Part B (and the annexes and supporting documents) can be uploaded in Step 5 of the
wizard. Detailed instructions for preparing these documents are available in the section Get
prepared.
Tips
Do not wait until the end to submit
It is highly recommended to submit your proposalas early as possible and at least 48 hours
before the deadline. This will avoid technical problems (system requirements, local
configuration settings, system congestion, etc).
Please note that you can submit the proposal as many times as you want. Every submitted
version will replace the previous one. Your proposal is sealed and closed. It will not be accessed
before the deadline of the call. There is no reason to delay submission for fear of disclosure.
Affiliated entities
In Step 4 of the wizard you specify the organisations participating in the consortium. As from
2021, this will include Affiliated Entities and Associated Partners. They will therefore need to
have registered beforehand and have their PIC. Their budget will also have to be individualised
already at application stage (separate row in the budget table).
Access rights of individual contact persons
In Step 4 of the wizard you also specify the contact persons for the organisations. To read more
about the levels of access rights, see the Roles and access rights section.
Changes to organisation-related data during proposal preparation
If your organisation is already registered, but organisation-related data has changed during
proposal preparation, you cannot update it directly in the Submission System.
The update must first be requested via the Participant Register (My Organisations > Actions >
Modify Organisation):
• by the LEAR (or Account Administrators) for validated entities
• by the Self-registrant if your organisation has not been validated yet.
Page limits and formatting requirements for the Technical Description (Part B)
Don’t forget that applications may have mandatory page limits and formatting requirements
(indicated at the beginning of the application form). Excess pages will be automatically made
invisible, and will not be taken into consideration by the evaluators.
36EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Checklist for submission
Before submitting the proposal, check that:
• your proposal fulfils the call conditions
• the proposal (both the Administrative Forms (Part A) and Technical Description (Part
B)) is complete, readable, accessible and printable
• the requested declarations have been made
• all consortium members have:
obtained a user account to log in to the Portal
o
registered in the Participant Register.
o
Mock evaluation
For some programmes, you can find standard evaluation forms similar to those used by our
evaluators on Portal Reference Documents. Try them out. Ideally, ask a disinterested colleague
to carry out a mock evaluation.
Multiple versions of proposal
You can submit your proposal several times before the deadline, to make updates or changes.
To view or change your submitted proposal, go to My Proposals > View Submitted > Re-edit
proposal. As long as the call has not been closed, the newly submitted version will overwrite
the previous one.
Please note that the re-edit functionality is not available for continuously open calls.
Multiple proposals
If the Coordinator submits a number of similar proposals, the Granting Authority may ask them
to choose one or more of them to be withdrawn.
Specific submission schemes
Two-stage submission schemes — You must submit a short outline proposal for stage 1 and will
be invited to submit a full application only if you pass to stage 2. The full application must be
consistent with the short outline proposal (no substantial differences allowed).
Calls with multiple cut-off dates — The call has a final closure date (usually the end of the
funding programme) and several cut-off dates that trigger evaluation. There is an evaluation
session after each cut-off date and the final closure date (normally within a month). After each
cut-off date, the submitted proposals are grouped, reviewed and ranked together. Evaluation
results are made available and proposals invited for grant preparation. If you miss a cut-off
date, the proposal will be evaluated with the next batch in the next evaluation session.
After submission
At submission, the application package is combined into one document, sealed and an e-receipt
is generated (with date and time of submission).
All contact persons of the coordinating organisation will receive an e-mail (after each submission
if several). If you have not received this e-mail, the application has not been submitted.
Please try again or contact the IT Helpdesk.
After the submission, there is normally no further contact between you and us until after the
end of the evaluation. The competent EU service will contact you only if there is a need to clarify
issues or request additional information or if the call foresees a hearing/interview as part of the
evaluation procedure.
37EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Withdrawal of submitted proposals
Before the call deadline, a proposal can be withdrawn at Step 6 of the wizard (My Proposals >
View Submitted > Withdraw proposal). After the call deadline, withdrawal has to be requested
via the IT Helpdesk.
Once withdrawn, the new status will be shown on the My Proposals page (and you can delete
the application with the Delete button).
After the call deadline
Once the call deadline has passed, no further corrections or re-submissions are possible.
However, you can have read-only access to the submitted proposal (My Proposals > View
Submitted).
Proposals that were never submitted (remain in draft status) are accessible for 90 days after
the call deadline (My Proposals > View Draft).
3.1.5 Complaints about failed submission
If you think that submission of your proposal failed and this was due to a technical error on the
Portal side, you may lodge a complaint through the IT Helpdesk.
The complaint must be filed within 4 calendar days after call closure. You will receive an
acknowledgement of receipt the same or next working day.
What else to do? You should secure a PDF version of the part B and annexes of your application
holding a time stamp before the call deadline (file attributes listing the date and time of creation
and last modification), as well as proof of the alleged failure (screenshots). You may be
requested by the IT Helpdesk to provide these items.
EC services will check the IT logs (application log files and access log files of the Commission
IT systems involved) and see if they show a technical problem on the Portal side which
prevented you from submitting (or resubmitting) the proposal.
You will be notified about the outcome as soon as possible.
If your complaint is justified, the files you provided to the IT Helpdesk will be used as your
proposal and sent for evaluation. If you didn’t provide any files, the last version recorded in the
IT system will be used.
Links
• Proposal Submission System: User Manual
3.2 Selection — From evaluation to grant signature
3.2.1 Admissibility and eligibility check
Once you have submitted a proposal, the Granting Authority will check:
• admissibility (complete and properly put together) and
• eligibility (fulfills eligibility conditions)
and then
• ask an independent evaluation committee to evaluate it.
38EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Admissibility criteria
The admissibility conditions are set out in the call conditions on the Topic page.
They are generally the same across all EU programmes. The proposal must:
• be submitted through the online Submission System before the call deadline
• be complete — application form correctly filled out, all sections of Parts A and B
completed, all annexes and supporting documents provided
• be readable, accessible and printable.
Furthermore, the proposal should respect the page limit set out in the application form. Excess
pages will be automatically made illegible, and will not be taken into consideration by the
evaluators.
Eligibility criteria
The eligibility criteria are also set out in the call conditions on the Topic page.
The basic eligibility check involves for most EU programmes if the content of the proposal is in
line with the topic description and if it involves participants coming from the right countries.
Additional criteria depend on the programme or specific topic (i.e. minimum consortium
composition, type of participant, geographic location of the project activities, coordinator from
an EU country, etc.).
For more information on participation of non-EU participants, see Who can apply section.
Outcome of the admissibility and eligibility check
If a proposal is inadmissible or ineligible, the participants will be informed (through the
coordinating organisation) and the rejection letter will be posted in their Portal library (My
Proposals > Actions > Follow-up > Proposal Management & Grant Preparation > Documents).
For complaints procedures against such rejections, see section Complaints about proposal
rejection.
3.2.2 Evaluation
Admissible and eligible proposals are sent on to evaluation by an independent evaluation
committee.
For most programmes the evaluation committee (panel) is made up of EU staff from the
Granting Authority and other services. They are often and assisted by outside experts for
individual evaluation and consensus group evaluation. For some programmes however (e.g.
Horizon Europe), the committee is usually composed exclusively of outside experts — for all
stages of the evaluation process (no internal staff).
The evaluation committee will also take position on the operational capacity of the consortium
and individual participants to properly implement the tasks planned. This assessment will be
based on the competence and experience of the participants, including operational resources
(human, technical and other) and is, for many programmes, integrated into the award criteria.
3.2.2.1 Award criteria
39EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Award criteria, scores thresholds and weighting
Proposals are evaluated and scored against award criteria set out in the call conditions on the
Topic page.
The award criteria, scores, thresholds and weightings depend on each programme and type of
action.
Globally speaking most programmes evaluate the following quality parameters: project
relevance, quality/implementation and impact. But in practice the labels vary and the
parameters are broken down into different aspects and focal points (see call conditions and, for
some programmes, the Programme Guides, e.g. Horizon Europe Programme Guide, Erasmus+
Programme Guide, AGRIP Programme Guide).
To be considered for funding, your proposal must score above a certain threshold for each
individual award criterion, and above an overall threshold for all of them together.
Moreover, in order to receive funding, your proposal must be ranked sufficiently to be above
the budget-threshold (relative positioning in the list of all proposals, compared to the other
proposals). For calls which provide for weightings, this ranking will also depend on the
weighting.
Your proposals will be evaluated on its own merit, and not its potential should certain
changes be made. Proposals with an inflated budget are likely to receive a lower score.
3.2.2.2 Evaluation and evaluation results
Evaluation process
Briefing
Evaluation: Individual evaluation > Consensus group > Panel review
Briefing of evaluators
Before starting the evaluation process, the evaluators are briefed on:
• the evaluation processes and procedures (including award criteria)
• the content of the topics under consideration
• the need to evaluate proposals as they were submitted, rather than their potential
should certain changes be made
• for outside experts: the terms of their contract (confidentiality, impartiality, conflicts of
interest, completing tasks and approving reports, penalties for non-compliance, etc).
For most EU programmes, there is no scope for recommending improvements to proposals
(including improvements on the budget).
Individual evaluation
During the individual evaluation, the evaluators work individually. Each evaluator gives a score
for each criterion, with explanatory comments, and prepares an individual evaluation report
(IER).
40EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Proposals are normally evaluated by at least three individual evaluators (for some programmes
and types of action, two may suffice; for many it is five).
The evaluators should also indicate if they consider that the proposal:
• is out of scope or
• involves security issues that will need further scrutiny.
Consensus group
After the individual evaluation, all evaluators who have evaluated the proposal will get together
in a consensus group, to agree on a common position on comments and scores.
For consensus groups made up of outside experts, the group will normally be assisted by a
member of the Granting Authority staff who will act as moderator to:
• seek a consensus, impartially and
• ensure that each proposal is evaluated fairly, according to the award criteria.
Panel review
After the consensus phase, the evaluation committee (panel) will take over and discuss the
proposals to:
• reach an agreement on the scores and comments for all proposals evaluated together,
checking consistency across the evaluations
• if necessary, propose a new set of marks or revise comments, and resolve cases where
evaluators were unable to agree
• rank the above-threshold proposals and give a priority order for proposals with the same
score.
Proposals with the same score
The evaluation committee will recommend a priority order for proposals with the same score,
using the procedure set out in the call conditions.
Interviews/hearings
If provided for in the call conditions, the evaluation committee (panel) may arrange
interviews/hearings.
In this case, invitations are sent to the coordinators of above-threshold proposals (and,
sometimes, also to those with scores above individual thresholds but below the overall
qualifying threshold).
The interviews/hearings may be held remotely or on site, in Brussels.
The questions to be asked will be determined by the panel beforehand and sent to all proposals.
The interviews/hearings will be used to get further information to clarify the proposals and help
the panel establish its final ranking list and scores. They may not serve to change proposals or
add missing information.
Outcome of evaluation
41EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
On the basis of the report and ranked list provided by the evaluation committee (panel), the
Granting Authority reviews the evaluation result, puts together the final ranking list and
informs the participants.
You can find the timing the evaluation and information on evaluation results in the call
conditions on the Topic page.
Final ranking — Reserve list — Rejections
The Granting Authority produces the final ranked list and the list of applications proposed
for funding.
The number of proposals in the list depends on the available budget. If the available budget is
too small to fund all above-threshold proposals (normally the case because EU grants are
heavily oversubscribed), some proposals may be put on a reserve list. These will then be
offered funding if a higher-scoring project does not go ahead or additional funds become
available.
The below-threshold proposals will be rejected.
Proposals will NOT be offered funding if the Granting Authority finds that it is already funding
very similar work elsewhere, or a proposal is in any way manifestly contrary to EU general
principles or established EU priorities or policies.
Evaluation result letters — Evaluation summary report
The participants will be informed (through the coordinating organisation) about their evaluation
result (together with the evaluation summary report (ESR)) and it will be posted in their Portal
library (My Proposals > Actions > Follow-up > Proposal Management & Grant Preparation >
Documents).
If your proposal was successful, you will get a grant preparation invitation letter. To follow
the further steps of preparing your grant, you will be prompted for each of the actions that need
to be carried out. Details are explained in the next section Grant preparation.
42EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Please note that invitation to grant preparation is NOT a formal commitment for funding. The
final decision on your project will only be taken at a later stage — this depends on the finalisation
of grant preparation and further checks which we still need to make (i.e. financial capacity, non-
exclusion, etc).
If your proposal was not succesful, you will receive a rejection letter. The means of redress for
such rejections are described in the section Complaints about proposal rejection.
3.2.3 Special procedures: Ethics review, security scrutiny,
Ownership control check
Ethics review
In order to avoid funding of ethically problematic activities, some funding programmes require
an ethics review procedure to clear the projects (e.g. Horizon Europe, Digital Europe, EU4H,
AMIF).
The details and the scope of the ethics review depend on each programme. Most programmes
simply check whether projects raise ethics issues and, if so, whether these are adequately
addressed. Some programmes, such as Horizon Europe, have a more elaborated review
procedure which includes several steps depending on the complexity of the issues (see Horizon
Europe Programme Guide).
The participants will be informed (through the coordinating organisation) of the ethics review
result and it will be posted in their Portal library (My Projects > Actions > Manage Project >
Document Library).
If the ethics review leads to requirements to be implemented before grant signature, you will
need to take immediate action to comply (and may also have to adapt the description of the
action (DoA Part B) to reflect this). If the review leads to additional requirements to be fulfilled
during the project, they are automatically added as ethics deliverables into the system and DoA
Part A and will be placed in an automatically generated work package called ethics
requirements. If the review shows that there are serious ethics issues that cannot be solved,
funding may have to be refused.
You may be asked to provide additional information if this is needed to complete the ethics
review (e.g. in case of serious or complex ethics issues or missing information).
Links
• How to complete your ethics self-assessment
Security scrutiny
In order to ensure that classified information (for EU classified information (EUCI), see Decision
2015/444) is protected from unauthorised disclosure and that security issues emerging from
project activities are appropriately addressed, some EU programmes systematically provide for
a security review procedure for applications that operate in security relevant contexts (e.g.
European Defence Fund, Horizon Europe, Digital Europe).
The details and the scope of the security review depend on each programme. Some
programmes, such as Horizon Europe and Digital Europe, have a more elaborated security
review procedure which includes several steps depending on whether the topic under which a
proposal is submitted is flagged by the Commission as security sensitive or not (see Horizon
Europe Programme Guide).
43EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
The security scrutiny (which is the final step of the more elaborated security review) is
essentially the same for all programmes: proposals must be cleared by the Security Scrutiny
Group (composed of national security experts nominated in agreement with their national
security authorities (NSAs)). The Security Scrutiny Group will determine the level of sensitivity
of the application and check whether all security aspects are being handled appropriately. You
will be informed about the result through your coordinator.
If the security scrutiny leads to requirements to be implemented before grant signature, you
will need to take immediate action to comply. If the scrutiny leads to classification and additional
requirements to be fulfilled during the project, this will be automatically reflected in the system
(classification of existing deliverables, limited dissemination of existing deliverables due to
security reasons, security aspect letter (SAL), security classification guide (SCG), appointment
of project security officer, establishment of security advisory board, etc.). If the scrutiny shows
that the project is too security sensitive, funding may have to be refused.
Links
• How to handle security-sensitive projects
Third country control
Some programmes (or calls) limit the participation of entities which are controlled by third
countries (e.g. European Defence Fund, Digital Europe, Horizon Europe, CEF). In this case, a
special procedure is needed to verify ownership control of participants.
Links
• Guidance on participation in DEP, HE, EDF and CEF-DIG restricted calls
• Rules on Legal Entity Validation, LEAR appointment and Financial Capacity Assessment
3.2.4 Grant preparation
Grant preparation
The Grant Agreement must be prepared directly in the Portal Grant Management System.
Where? Access to the Grant Management System is available through My Projects > Actions
> Manage Project > Proposal Management & Grant Preparation > Grant agreement data
preparation.
Who? The Grant Agreement data should be prepared by the consortium participants together
and submitted by the Coordinator.
How? You will be prompted by e-mail for all the actions that you need to carry out for the grant
preparation. For more details, see the list of grant-related notifications.
What? The grant preparation process consists of:
• setting up the Portal Grant Management System with the:
participants’ legal, administrative and financial information
o
description of the action (DoA, Annex 1 GA)
o
estimated budget (Annex 2 and 2a GA)
o
project variables (when the project starts, reporting periods, amount of
o
prefinancing, GA options, etc)
44EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
legal documents needed for grant signature (declarations of honour)
o
• so that the system can generate the Grant Agreement
and
• trigger signature directly inside the system (Grant Agreement and Accession Forms).
In parallel, the Granting Authority will perform the remaining legal checks to ensure that all the
successful proposals can receive EU funding (legal entity validation, financial capacity check,
non-exclusion check, etc).
Our Grant Agreement clauses are common to all EU programmes and mandatory for all
beneficiaries. They are explained in more detail in the AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement.
Grant preparation process
Enter & submit grant data: Entering legal, administrative & financial data > Preparing the
Description of the Action (DoA)
Signing the Grant Agreement
Description of the Action (DoA) (Part A and B)
The description of the action (DoA, Annex 1) is structured like the application form into
two parts, Parts A and B:
• Part A: contains the structured tables with project information (retrieved from the Grant
Management System tabs)
• Part B (the narrative part): is based on Part B of the application form and must be
uploaded as a PDF.
Creating Part B of the DoA is straightforward, as it can be derived directly from Part B of the
application. The instructions for this are available on Portal Reference Documents.
The system will merge the Parts A and B, generating a single PDF with the full description of
the action (DoA).
All participants can contribute to the parts, but it is the Coordinator who will have to finalise
and submit it.
Tasks of the Coordinator:
• Workplan tables: Complete the workplan tables in Part A, (work package descriptions,
deliverables and milestones)
• Check that all PICs have been validated by the Central Validation Service
• Quality check:
Check that the DoA is coherent and that information in Part A and B is consistent.
Some programmes will ask you not to simply attach the application, but to adapt Part
B. In this case, try to avoid overlaps between Parts A and B (delete work plan tables
from Part B, etc).
Check that DoA and the application match: please check if the content of the DoA differs
from the application, as this must be in compliance with your invitation letter to start
grant preparation. In addition, you may correct shortcomings identified by the experts
in the evaluation summary report. The information presented in the DoA can be made
45EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
more consistent if necessary. Any errors should be corrected (data displayed in a table
or figure is at odds with the description, etc).
Check that the DoA and the legal and administrative information match: for example, it
must describe the role and tasks performed by each Partner (Coordinator, Beneficiary,
Affiliated Entity, Third party providing in-kind contributions, etc) defined in the
structured part.
Make sure that the template has been followed and all sections are completed and no
annexes are missing.
Termination of grant preparation
If the consortium decides against the grant during grant preparation, they can launch the
termination process directly in the Portal. See the detailed screens and descriptions in the
on grant preparation termination.
This type of termination works only during grant preparation. Afterwards (after grant
signature), the grant must be formally terminated by amending the GA (early termination
amendment).
Links
• Horizon Europe Coordinators' Day 2022 event page (including recording of the event
and presentations)
• How to successfully manage a Horizon 2020-funded project — 10 practical tips on
research project management
• Communication to Horizon 2020 beneficiaries: How to avoid errors when claiming costs
in H2020 grants
FAQ
• FAQ on grant preparation
3.2.4.1 Enter & submit grant data
Actions to be completed before grant preparation
Organise access rights and roles
All Beneficiaries need access rights in order to prepare their grant data in the system and
sign the legal documents (declarations of honour, Grant Agreements and Accession Forms).
The contact persons of each organisation indicated in the proposal will automatically receive
access rights during grant preparation:
Proposal Grant preparation
Person who created the application ou PCoCo
submit the proposal?
Contact persons with full access rights CoCos (for Coordinator) + PaCos (for
other Beneficiaries)
46EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Contact persons with read-only rights Team Members (TeMes)
In addition, if your organisation has already been validated, the LEAR will normally also
already have been appointed.
Other persons and roles (especially LSIGNs and FSIGNs) will have to be appointed first by
the LEAR (My Organisations > Actions > Edit Organisation Roles > Add Roles) and then
assigned to the project by the CoCos and PaCos (My Projects > Actions > Project
Consortium > Edit Roles).
The minimum setup of roles that you need to prepare and conclude the Grant Agreement
are the following:
• for the Coordinator:
Primary Coordinator Contact (PCoCo) — already appointed
o
Legal Entity Appointed Representative (LEAR)
o
Project Legal Signatory (PLSIGN)
o
• for other Beneficiaries:
Participant Contact (PaCo)
o
Legal Entity Appointed Representative (LEAR)
o
Project Legal Signatory (PLSIGN).
o
The same person can fulfil several or all of the above roles.
Our system allows for only one signature on your side. If your internal rules require
several signatories, you must give an internal mandate to one of them and ensure that the
electronic signature in our system is executed only after all the necessary internal
authorisations were given. These authorisations must be collected, stored and kept by you
in line with your usual management practices (usually paper-based) so that they can be
provided to us in case of EU controls, checks or audits.
More details about nomination are in the Roles and access rights section.
Make sure all participants are registered and validated (PIC)
All Beneficiaries and Affiliated Entities must be registered and validated in time for grant
signature (see section on Registration and validation of your organisation).
Associated Partners need to be only registered (have a PIC); no validation is needed,
because they will not receive any grant money.
Prepare and sign a consortium agreement (always recommended; in many
cases mandatory)
Consortium agreements are mandatory for many EU programmes. But even if they are not,
it is highly recommended to have arrangements in place to cover consortium-internal issues
that may arise during the project (e.g. decision-making procedures, resolve conflicts,
safeguard intellectual property rights, etc). The consortium agreement should be signed
before the Grant Agreement. For details, see AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 7
and the How to establish your H2020 consortium agreement.
47EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Enter legal, administrative & financial data
You need to prepare the Grant Agreement in the Portal Grant Management System.
Details are explained in the .
Enter the structured information into the system (Part A of the DoA)
Go to My Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Proposal Management & Grant Preparation
> Grant agreement data preparation and transfer the information from your application
form (Part B) to the Work Packages, Deliverables, Milestones and Critical Risks screens.
You can move work packages up and down by drag & drop to position them in the order of
your preference. When a work package is moved to a new position, the numbering of WPs
(and also the relative numbering of deliverables) is automatically adapted.
Enter the other grant data into the system
a) Set the project starting date
Set the date on which the project is to start (starting date of the action) on the Project
Summary screen.
The options may vary depending on programme and type of action (see call conditions),
but generally there are 2 options:
• the first day of the month after entry into force (signature by EU) — default
option
• if needed, a fixed starting date may be agreed — this should be the first day of
a month and normally after grant signature (unless authorised otherwise by the
Granting Authority).
If you enter a fixed starting date, you will be asked to justify your choice. If you
chose a starting date before grant signature, you must explain why your project requires
this. Please note that the starting date can normally NOT be before the date on which
your application was submitted (unless explicitly allowed in the call conditions). Please
also note that any project activities taking place before grant signature bear the risk
that the grant may finally not be signed.
b) Check the project reporting periods
The reporting periods will be pre-filled for each call on the Reporting Periods screen.
To minimise administrative burden for you, we will choose the smallest possible number
of reporting periods. On average, most programmes tend to have reporting periods
between 12 and 18 months.
c) Check the prefinancing for the project
The standard prefinancing percentage will be pre-filled for each call on the Project
Financial Information screen.
The final prefinancing amount for each project will however be fixed only later, once the
budgetary information is completed from your side and the Granting Authority has
examined the results from the financial capacity assessment (see section Financial
capacity assessment). The prefinancing may be lowered in case of low financial capacity.
48EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
d) Complete the legal and administrative information for the participants
Fill in the missing information for each participant on the Partner Summary screen and
complete the Affiliated Entities and Associated Partner screens.
e) Define the budgets for the participants
Fill in the budget for each participant on the Partner Financial Information screens.
Make sure the budget details match the proposal and the GAP invitation letter (and the
detailed budget table, if required).
f) Provide the banking details for the Coordinator
Select the bank account to be used for payments from the dropdown menu on the
Coordinator’s Bank Account screen.
If your preferred bank account is not listed, you must ask your LEAR to add the bank
account in the Participant Register (My Organisations > Actions > Modify Organisation).
Once the new bank account has been validated (this may take a few days), it will appear
in the dropdown menu and you will be able to select it.
f) Enter other information as prompted
Upload Part B of the description of the action (DoA)
Upload Part B on the Documents screen. Follow the instructions from Portal Reference
Documents.
Sign the declarations of honour (DoH)
For each Beneficiary, the PLSIGN must sign a declaration of honour (DoH) directly in the
system (grant declaration) .
Affiliated entities also need to sign a DoH. For them, the responsible Beneficiary must
download the template from Portal Reference Documents, ask each entity to complete and
sign it, then upload the scanned DoHs for their linked third parties.
Joint and several liability of Affiliated Entities (if required)
If the Granting Authority requires joint and several liability of an Affiliated Entity, the
declaration on joint and several liability must be submitted together with the Accession
Form.
The Beneficiary must download the form prepared by the system, ask the Affiliated Entity
to sign it and upload the scanned declaration when signing the Accession Form.
For more details, see AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 22.
Prefinancing guarantee (if required)
If the Granting Authority requires a prefinancing guarantee, you need to obtain this from
a bank or approved financial institution (using the template available on Portal Reference
Documents), send a scanned copy through Portal Formal Notifications (My Projects >
Actions > Manage Project > Launch new interaction with the EU > Formal Notification) and
the original by registered post with proof of delivery to the mail address of the service
responsible for your grant.
49EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
For more details, see AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 23.
Submit grant preparation to the Granting Authority
Assessment by the Granting Authority and finalisation of GA data
The Project Officer will enter the EU grant preparation data (GA options, etc) and check the
data submitted by the consortium. If needed, they will send back the session to the
consortium for changes/addition information (ping-pong).
Tips
Changes to consortium composition/project during grant preparation
Please note that consortia/projects can be altered ONLY under exceptional circumstances,
and ONLY if duly justified.
Nonetheless, there may be circumstances where you may need to change/adjust the consortium
composition/project before grant signature (bankruptcy, merger/acquisition, loss of a key
member of staff that is needed to carry out the project, etc).
In this case, your Coordinator should contact the EU Project Officer explain why and propose a
solution (reassign tasks and budget within the consortium or to a new participant, adjustments
to the project, etc).
If accepted, you may need to update the Grant Management System screens and upload a new
Part B.
Please note that the proposals may NOT be substantially changed and that all changed
elements must comply with the call conditions for the call. Redistribution of tasks must be in
line with the competences of the participants concerned and the quality of the
project/consortium must be guaranteed.
If no acceptable solution is presented, we will request you to withdraw the proposal and
terminate grant preparation.
Deadlines
In the interest of all sides, we will try to handle grant preparation as swiftly as possible (ideally
3 months after you receive the GAP invitation letter).
To make this happen, we will ask you to comply with relatively strict deadlines during grant
preparation:
• Preparation grant data & annexes (first version): 3 weeks after GAP invitation letter
• Finalisation grant data & annexes: up to 2 weeks after reply by Project Officer
• Sign declaration of honour (DoH): at the latest 6 weeks after GAP invitation letter.
• Grant signature: 3 months from GAP invitation letter
Deadlines can be extended under exceptional circumstances by the EU Project Officer.
Please note that if you have not been granted an extension, and fail to meet the established
deadlines, preparation of your Grant Agreement may be terminated and your proposal rejected.
3.2.4.2 Final legal checks
50EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
During grant preparation, we will also finalise the mandatory legal checks (legal entity
validation, operational and financial capacity, exclusion and double funding).
In case of issues, we may need to contact you.
3.2.5 Grant signature
Signing the Grant Agreement is the last step of the grant preparation phase. It is done directly
in the Portal Grant Management System (electronic signature) and demonstrates that both
contracting parties formally approve the agreement and its annexes.
The Grant Agreement enters into force with the last signature (normally the EU because the
Coordinator usually signs first).
Where? Access to the Grant Management System is available through My Projects > Actions
> Manage Project > Proposal Management & Grant Preparation > Sign.
Who? The Grant Agreement is signed by the EU and the Coordinator. The other Beneficiaries
do not sign the Grant Agreement itself, but accede to the Grant Agreement through Accession
Forms. Affiliated Entities or Associated Partners do not sign and do not become formal parties
to the Agreement.
How? You will receive e-mail notifications prompting the tasks needed for grant signature. For
more detail, see the list of grant-related notifications.
Signing EU Grant Agreements electronically —
What's involved?
The electronic signature in the Portal requires:
• a chain of trust with Beneficiaries — to guarantee signatories' identity
• a system of digital signatures protected by multiple security features — to guarantee
documents' reliability and authenticity
This type of electronic signature is used for signature of contracts, amendments and cost claims
(Financial Statements and invoices).
The chain of trust
LEAR
The Legal Entity Appointed Representative (LEAR) appointed by the Beneficiary’s legal
representative (signed LEAR documents uploaded in the Participant Register) is the
centrepiece of the chain of trust. More in the section LEAR appointment and validation.
LEAR appoints all LSIGNs and FSIGNs for the organisation
The LEAR vouches for the organisation data entered into the system and the nominated
persons. They appoint the individuals authorised to sign:
51EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
• Grant Agreements and amendments (Legal Signatories, known as LSIGNs)
• Financial Statements (Financial Signatories, known as FSIGNs).
The LEAR is responsible for keeping these lists constantly updated.
PaCO selects LSIGN and FSIGN for project
Participant Contacts (PaCo) or Coordinator Contacts (CoCos) have to select the Project
Legal Signatories (PLSIGNs) and Financial Signatories (PFSIGNs) from the LSIGN and
FSIGN lists nominated by the LEAR. For more information, check the section on Roles and
access rights.
Closed system where access rights are strictly controlled.
The chain of trust is built in a closed electronic exchange system. Each individual must
identify themselves with their personal EU Login account and access is strictly controlled.
Signing the Grant Agreement
Sign the declarations of honour (DoH)
Before the Grant Agreement can be signed, the PLSIGN of each Beneficiary must sign a
declaration of honour (grant declaration). For more details, see Enter legal administrative
& financial grant data.
Grant agreement ready for signature
The system prepares the Grant Agreement for signing (PDF document, digitally sealed to
guarantee its security, reliability and authenticity).
Coordinator signs the Grant Agreement
The Coordinator's PLSIGN logs into the Portal My Projects > Actions > Manage Project >
Proposal Management & Grant Preparation > Sign.
52EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
During signature, a pop-up explains that this means the signatory is preparing to sign. It
then asks the PLSIGN to confirm that they wish to sign and a second prompt asks the
PLSIGN to enter their EU Login password.
After signature, the system creates a new version of the PDF document (with a digital seal,
a time stamp, and the signatory's EU Login credentials on the signature placeholder). The
validity of the signature can be verified by opening it in a compatible PDF reader and clicking
on the image of the digital signature.
The Grant Agreement can be previewed, downloaded or printed (before or after signature)
from the Documents screen if desired.
The LEAR of the Coordinator and the other Beneficiaries are informed that the Coordinator
has signed the Grant Agreement.
Granting authority signs the Grant Agreement
The EU Authorising Officer is prompted to countersign the Grant Agreement from their side
(same procedure as under point 3).
The Participants will be informed and the countersigned Grant Agreement will be available
in their Portal Library (My Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Document Library).
Participants sign the Accession forms
All other Beneficiaries' PLSIGNs are prompted to sign their Accession Forms (same
procedure as under point 3) — within 30 days after entry into force (signature by EU).
The CoCos and LEAR of the Coordinator and PaCo and LEAR of the concerned Beneficiary
are notified when an Accession Form has been signed.
Grant Agreement is finalised
Not signed Grant Agreement
• If the Coordinator does not sign, the Granting Authority may stop preparing the grant
and reject the proposal.
• If a Beneficiary does not sign the Accession Form within 30 days of the Grant Agreement
entering into force, the Granting Authority may terminate the Grant Agreement. In this
case, in order to continue with the project, the Coordinator must: request an
amendment, so that any changes needed to ensure that the project is carried out
properly can be made.
This request must be made within 30 days after the missed deadline for signing
o
the Accession Form.
The request for an amendment does not affect the Granting Authority's right to
o
terminate the Grant Agreement.
The Accession Form template is available for information on Portal Reference
Documents.
Project starting date
The project starting date is calculated as from the entry into force of the Grant Agreement (last
signature = signature by the EU).
53EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Prefinancing
The entry into force and starting date also determine the baseline date for the prefinancing (i.e.
the float that we normally pay immediately after grant signature).
Depending on the programme (see call conditions), prefinancing is either paid 30 days from:
• Horizon Europe, Digital, SMP, etc: the entry into force or 10 days before the starting
date or submission of the prefinancing guarantee (if required) — depending on which
is the latest
or
• CEF, LIFE, EMFAF, Erasmus, etc: the entry into force or submission of the prefinancing
guarantee (if required) — depending on which is the latest.
Links
• eSignature of grant documents video
3.2.6 Complaints about proposal rejection
If you believe that the rejection of your proposal was based on an error in the selection
procedure, you can submit a complaint (following the deadlines and procedures set out in the
evaluation result letter).
Generally, the means of redress are the following:
• request for admissibility/eligibility or evaluation review (redress review) — within 30
days of receiving the letter
• for decisions by EU executive agencies: request for review of legality under Article 22
of Regulation 58/2003 — within 1 month of receiving the letter (using the Article 22
complaints form template)
• action for annulment under Article 263 TFEU — within 2 months of receiving the letter.
You are free to choose any of the above means of redress. However, in the interest of good
administration and procedural efficiency, it is recommended to use first the available
administrative review procedures (if any). The objective of these procedures is to re-examine
the circumstances of the selection procedure and to reach a final decision on your application.
Deadlines for further redress will therefore run as from when you receive our reply with the
final position.
Please note that notifications which have not been opened within 10 days after sending are
considered to have been accessed and that the deadlines will be counted from opening/access
(see Portal Terms and Conditions).
Complaints will be subject to the following conditions:
• Complaints must focus on aspects concerning the evaluation of the proposals (e.g.
admissibility or eligibility checks, evaluation procedure, etc), not their merits. Thus,
applicants can raise procedural irregularities, factual errors, manifest errors of
assessment or abuse of powers (e.g. lack of coherence between scores and comments,
lack or inadequate reasoning of the conclusions, the existence of a conflict of interests,
exceeding the limits of discretion, etc). Mere repetitions of the content of the proposal
or disagreements with the result or reasoning of the technical evaluation will not be
considered.
54EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
• Only one request for review per proposal will be considered. The request cannot refer
to the evaluation of proposals submitted by other applicants or under different or
previous calls.
• Review requests will not always necessarily also lead to a re-evaluation of your proposal
(new technical evaluation with new group of evaluators). The administrative review
procedure will re-examine your case, but a re-evaluation will be decided only if your
complaint demonstrates that the procedural irregularity, factual error, manifest error of
assessment or abuse of powers affects the decision on whether to fund the proposal.
Thus, for example, a problem relating to one of the evaluation criteria will not lead to a
re-evaluation if, even by adding the maximum points under this criterion, the final score
of the proposal would still remain below the threshold for funding.
• Re-evaluations will be made on the proposal as it was originally submitted; no additional
information will be admitted. Re-evaluations will be partial (limited to the criterion
affected by the error) or full (when the whole evaluation has been recognized as flawed)
— depending on the case. They may be assigned to the same evaluation panel or a new
one, depending on the internal procedures of the Granting Authority.
• The score following a re-evaluation may be lower than the original score.
• All requests for review will be treated as confidential.
Please pay attention to who took the formal decision and who the complaint must be addressed
to. If a decision was taken by an EU executive agency or other EU body, both redress review
and applications for annulment must be directed against that agency/body (NOT against the
European Commission). Only Article 22 complaints must be addressed to the respective
Directorate-General of the Commission (parent DG of the executive agency).
In case you consider that there has been maladministration on our part, you can also address
a complaint to the European Ombudsman — within 2 years after you became aware of it AND
after having used all the means of administrative redress available (redress and Article 22
request, if any).
3.3 Grant management
3.3.1 Keeping records
All participants must keep records and other supporting documentation in order to prove
the proper implementation and the costs claimed (see AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art
20).
For Lump Sum grants, records on costs incurred are exceptionally NOT needed; it is enough to
keep the evidence to prove the proper implementation of the action.
Links
• AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 20
• Horizon Europe Coordinators' Day 2022 event page (including recording of the event
and presentations)
3.3.2 Amendments
Amendments requested by the consortium
55EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
If there are any changes to the Grant Agreement (e.g. data or options specific to that
agreement) or its annexes, they must be done through a formal amendment directly in the
Portal (electronic signature).
Where? Access to the Grant Management System is available through My Projects > Actions
> Manage Project > Launch new interaction with the EU > Request for Amendment.
Who? Amendments can be prepared by the consortium participants together, but only the
Coordinator can launch, sign and submit them.
The EU Granting Authority can also propose amendments, but for practical reasons we will often
as you to initiate the procedure.
When? Amendments must normally be done before the end of the project, but some
amendment clauses are also open afterwards (addition of Beneficiary/Affiliated
Entity/Associated Partner, change of Coordinator, change of Annex 1, change of Annex 2,
change of bank account, error amendments, etc).
What? Cases requiring a formal amendment are listed in the AGA — Annotated Grant
Agreement, art 39. See also How to prepare an amendment in the .
Amendments are normally NOT necessary for:
• budget transfers covered by the budget flexibility
• name or address changes of a participant — done directly in the Participant Register
• universal takeovers (merger/acquisition) of a participant — done directly in the
Participant Register
• changes of the banking details — done directly in the Participant Register.
The signed amendment is the legal document containing the changes to the Grant
Agreement. It is legally binding and will be incorporated into the Agreement. The consolidated
version is only for information.
Amendment process
Get ready > Launch amendment > Amendment preparation > Consult Commission >
Sign&Submit > Assessment > Countersign
Amendment request
The amendment request consists of:
• updated structured information on the Grant Management System screens
• amendment request letter: the letter with the request and reasons for the amendment
• amendment core (including new version of GA Annexes 1 and 2, if needed): the legal
document with the list of amendment clauses
• supporting documents: documents uploaded by the consortium, consolidated Grant
Agreement, etc
All participants can contribute to the amendment, but it is the Coordinator who will have to
launch, finalise, submit and sign the request.
Tasks of the Coordinator:
56EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
• Check that the updated information Grant Management System screens is correct.
• Quality check: Check that the Amendment documents are correct and all supporting
documents attached.
Actions to be completed before amendment
Make sure new participants are registered and validated (PIC)
New Beneficiaries and Affiliated Entities must be registered and validated in the Participant
Register before the amendment can be requested (see section on Registration and
validation of your organisation).
Associated Partners need to be only registered (have a PIC); no validation is needed,
because they will not receive any grant money from us.
Make sure that new bank accounts are registered and validated
New banking information must be registered and validated in the Participant Register
before an amendment can be requested (see section on Bank account registration and
validation).
Submitting an amendment
Amendments must be prepared in the Portal Grant Management System.
Details are explained in the .
Get ready
Before launching your amendment request, prepare the supporting documents and, if
needed, discuss the request beforehand with the EU Project Officer (— recommended for
more complicated cases).
Launch the amendment
Go to My Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Launch new interaction with the EU >
Request for Amendment
Amendment reference number (ID) — Once you have launched the request, the
amendment is automatically assigned a reference number. Please use this unique identifier
in all contacts with the Granting Authority during the amendment process.
Change the grant data in the system
Go to My Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Amendment > Amendment preparation.
Once the amendment is been launched, you can amend the grant data in the same way as
as you did when preparing the Grant Agreement.
Enter the amendment information into the system
a) Justification
57EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Fill out the field to justify the request on the Amendment Information screen.
b) Amendment clauses
On the basis of the changes to the grant data, the system will automatically select the
relevant amendment types (automatic clauses) on the Amendment Information screen.
Other types of amendment have to be selected manually by the EU Project Officer,
(change of Annex 1, change in the maximum grant amount, resuming the action after
suspension, etc). Contact the Project Officer to activate the clause.
In case a change triggers the need for another change, a prompt will appear.
Upload annexes and supporting documents
You will be prompted to upload mandatory supporting documents. These depend on the
type of amendment and the specific case (e.g. a new Beneficiary must provide the DoH
and the Accession Form).
Consult Granting Authority
Once ready, the amendment request must be submitted to the Granting Authority for
informal assessment.
Informal assessment by the Granting Authority
The Project Officer will check that the amendment request is correct and admissible. If
needed, they will send it back to the consortium for changes/additional information (ping-
pong).
Coordinator signs & submits the amendment request
Once the request for an amendment is complete and ready to be submitted, the system
generates the 2 documents (amendment request letter and amendment core) for signature
(PDF document, digitally signed to guarantee its security, reliability and authenticity).
The Coordinator’s PLSIGN logs into My Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Amendment
> Sign & Submit (same procedure as for Grant Agreement; see Signing the Grant
Agreement).
The amendment can be previewed, downloaded or printed (before or after signature) from
the Documents screen if desired.
As Coordinator, you cannot alter a request for an amendment once it has been signed
and submitted. There are 2 options:
• You withdraw it.
• The Granting Authority rejects it (amendment rejection letter).
Formal assessment by the Granting Authority
The Granting Authority has 45 days to accept or reject the request.
This deadline will be extended if needed (e.g. if the amendment are complex, specific
compliance checks are needed for a new participant, or if the project has to be reviewed to
assess the changes).
58EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Granting authority signs the amendment
Acceptance: If the Granting Authority accepts the request, they countersign it from their
side (same procedure as for Grant Agreement; see Signing the Grant Agreement).
The Coordinator and Beneficiaries will be informed and the countersigned amendment will
be available in their Portal Library (My Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Project
Library).
Rejection: If the request is rejected, the consortium will be informed by amendment
rejection letter.
Amendment number — Once the amendment is countersigned, it is automatically assigned
a sequential amendment number (1, 2, 3, etc). For instance, an amendment request with
the reference AMD-345622-6 is assigned number 2 if it is the 2nd signed amendment for
the grant. Rejected amendments are assigned a number (R1, R2); but they are saved, so
that they can be reused to draw up a new request.
The Coordinator’s PLSIGN can withdraw a submitted request until it is countersigned.
Withdrawn requests are saved and can be reused to submit a new request.
Entry into force & taking effect
An amendment proposed by a consortium enters into force on the day the Granting Authority
signs it.
It takes effect (i.e. the changes to the Grant Agreement start to apply) either:
• on a specific date specified in the amendment or
• on the date of entry into force (last signature = signature by the EU).
Depending on the nature of the amendment, the date on which it takes effect may affect
the eligibility of costs (e.g. if a Beneficiary is added, costs are eligible from the accession date
specified in the Accession Form).
Coordinator change without their agreement
If the Coordinator is to be replaced without their agreement, another Beneficiary (acting on
behalf of the other Beneficiaries in the consortium) must submit the amendment request.
To do this, you will need to contact the EU Project Officer, so that they can give you
(exceptional) PCoCo access rights in the system.
Please note you will have to provide proof both of the consortium decision to change the
Coordinator, to nominate you to act on their behalf AND the opinion of the changed Coordinator
(or at least proof that the opinion was requested) — otherwise the termination will be considered
improper.
Amendments initiated by the Granting Authority
If the Granting Authority requests an amendment, the request is also prepared and signed
electronically in the Portal Grant Management System.
You will receive an e-mail notification prompting you to accept the request.
To do so, the Coordinator's PLSIGN must countersign the amendment on the consortium's
behalf.
59EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Links
• Amendment Guide
• AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 39
• Horizon Europe Coordinators' Day 2022 event page (including recording of the event
and presentations)
3.3.3 Continuous reporting on milestones & deliverables
During the project, you are expected to provide regular updates on the status of the project:
the continuous reporting.
The continuous reporting includes:
• progress in achieving milestones
• deliverables
• updates to the publishable summary
• response to critical risks, publications, communications activities, IPRs
• programme-specific monitoring information (if required).
Where? The Continuous Reporting Module is accessible through the link you receive at the
beginning of the project.
Who? Milestones and deliverables should be submitted by each participant for their work.
What? You should report on milestones and deliverables in accordance with the schedule set
out for them.
The Continuous Reporting Module also allows you to report on critical risks, prepare the
summary for publication and the programme-specific information on indicators (e.g. Trainings,
Gender, Open Data, etc — if available for your programme and type of action).
Milestones — Control points in the project that help to chart progress (kick-off meetings,
steering committes, first-draft of a survey, prototype, etc). They may correspond to the
completion of a key deliverable, which allows the next phase of the work to begin or is needed
at intermediary points.
Deliverables — Outputs to be submitted to the EU (publication, leaflet, progress report,
brochure, list, etc).
All this information is automatically compiled to create part A of the periodic Technical Report,
at the moment this report is prepared (Locked for review).
Reporting in the Continuous Reporting Module
At the beginning of the project, you will receive a notification (+ link) that the Continuous
Reporting Module is activated and that you can contribute to it on an ongoing basis.
Detailed information on the Module can be found in the .
Update the project summary
60EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Please note that you must provide a separate summary for each periodic report (just
update the summary for the previous period).
The summary must be suitable for direct publication by the Granting Authority,
especially:
• be a stand-alone text — no references to other parts of the report, only to publicly
available information.
• easily understandable by a general audience
• preferably not longer than 7,480 characters (roughly 2 pages)
• with no confidential/sensitive data
You can upload diagrams or photographs illustrating and promoting your project work (
only as images and you must have cleared any rights of third parties advance).
You can also mention the websites used to promote the EU project (see section
Communicating and promoting the project).
Update the deliverables
The deliverables must be submitted according to the timing specified in the Continuous
Reporting section.
At the time the periodic report is submitted, check if all deliverables due have been
provided and, if not, give an explanation in the Comments column (especially for missing
or late deliverables and/or cancelled or grouped deliverables).
Update the milestones
Specify whether the milestones were achieved or not. If not, enter an estimate of when.
The milestones table included in each periodic report is cumulative (it shows all milestones
from the beginning of the project).
Update the critical risks
Assess the state of play of the listed risks and if necessary specify new mitigation
measures or add newly identified risks.
Programme-specific monitoring information (if required)
Some programmes (e.g. Horizon Europe) have additional policy-monitoring screens on
indicators which require input (Publications, Dissemination, Patents (IPR), SME
participation, Gender, Infrastructure, Innovation, Open data, ABS Regulation, Trainings).
Links
• AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 21
• Horizon Europe Coordinators' Day 2022 event page (including recording of the event
and presentations)
3.3.4 Reports & payment requests
61EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
In order to receive payments, the consortium must submit periodic reports (following the
schedule set out in the Grant Agreement). When these are due, they must be submitted directly
in the Periodic Reporting Module of the Portal Grant Management System.
Where? Access to the Grant Management System is available through My Projects > Actions
> Manage Project > Periodic Reporting > Technical Part contribution/Financial Statement
drafting.
Who? The periodic report should be prepared by the consortium participants together and
submitted by the Coordinator.
How? You will be prompted by e-mail for all the actions that you need to carry out for the
periodic reporting.
What? In the periodic report, you should report on the progress of the work and costs claimed
(see below Periodic Report). When the Coordinator submits the periodic report, the IT tool will
capture the information from the Continuous Reporting Module in order to generate the Part A
of the Technical Report. The system will also consolidate the Individual Financial Statements
and it will generate the use of resources report (if required) and the Summary Financial
Statements (for the consortium).
Reporting process
Continuous reporting > Preparing your periodic report > Approving Partners' reports >
Submitting the report to the Commission > Acceptance or rejection by the Commission >
Interim payment
Periodic report: Technical Report (Part A and B) and Financial Report
The periodic report consists of two parts, the Technical Report and Financial Report.
The Technical Report is itself also divided in two parts, Parts A and B:
Part A: contains the structured tables with project information (retrieved from the Grant
Management System).
Part B (the narrative part): mirrors the application form and requires the participants to report
on differences (delays, work not implemented, new subcontracts, budget overruns etc). It must
be uploaded as PDF document.
The Financial Report consists of the structured individual and consolidated Financial
Statements (retrieved from the Grant Management System). In addition, most programmes
require either a detailed cost reporting table (excel table) or the use of resources report (online
wizard) and, for payments above a certain thresholds, a certificate on the financial statements
(CFS).
The technical report Part A and the financial report is generated automatically on the basis of
the data in the Grant Management System; Part B needs to be prepared outside the tools (using
62EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
the template downloaded from the system) and then uploaded as PDF (together with Annexes,
if any).
All participants should contribute to the parts, but it is the Coordinator who will have to submit
them as a single report.
Tasks of the Coordinator:
• Check that the Continuous Reporting Module is updated in time (before the Periodic
Report is Locked for review).
• Check that all participants have submitted their Financial Statements (and CFS, if
needed)
• Quality checks:
Check that the Report is coherent and that information in Part A and B is consistent.
Make sure that the template has been followed and all sections are completed and no
annexes are missing.
Certificate on the Financial Statements (CFS)
The CFS is a report produced by an independent auditor (or, for public bodies, public officer)
using the template available on Portal Reference Documents. Its purpose is to give assurance
to the Granting Authority about the regularity of the costs claimed.
The thresholds depend on the EU programme and type of action (see call conditions on the
Topic page). For the MFF 2021-2027, there is usually a single threshold of EUR 325 000
requested EU contribution.
Please note that costs already audited by the Granting Authority do not have to be covered
again by the CFS (the EU contribution covered by the audit can therefore be excluded from the
calculation of the threshold).
The CFS must be uploaded as a scanned copy (PDF) together with the Financial Statement. The
originals must be kept in the your files.
Submitting the periodic reports
You should start preparing the periodic report in the Grant Management System right after the
periodic reporting is opened at the end of each reporting period (— deadline for submission is
normally 60 days).
Details on how to submit are available in the .
Make sure that the information in the Continuous Reporting Module is updated
This must be done before the Technical Report (both parts) is first Locked for review by
the Coordinator. Any entries into the Continuous Reporting Module made afterwards will
NOT be included in this periodic report.
Complete your Financial Statements
63EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Go to My Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Periodic Reporting > Financial Statement
drafting and complete the Financial Statements for each participant on their Financial
Statement screen.
Make sure the cost details match the use of resources or detailed budget table (if required).
To sign and submit to the Coordinator, the Beneficiary’s PFSIGN must log into My Projects
> Actions > Manage Project > Periodic Reporting > Sign & Submit (same procedure as for
Grant Agreement; see Signing the Grant Agreement).
Affiliated Entities must supply their Beneficiary with a signed paper Financial Statement;
the Beneficiary must then fill in the information in the system and sign and submit.
If you fail to submit a Financial Statement, your costs will be considered zero for this
reporting period (but you can declare them in the next reporting period).
Upload Part B of the technical report
Upload Part B on the Technical Report Part B screen (as a single PDF). Use the template
available inside the system. This can be done by any Beneficiary (not only the Coordinator).
If any changes to Part B are needed, you must delete the pdf file and upload a new one.
When both Parts A and B are ready to submit, the Technical Report can be finalised by the
Coordinator (My Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Periodic Reporting > Accept &
Include).
Coordinator approves Partners' financial reports
The Coordinator must review and explicitly approve the periodic report. If needed, you can
send back a Financial Statement to a Partner for further changes, or unlock the Technical
Report for editing.
Before submitting, all the accepted Partners' Financial Statements must be included (My
Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Periodic Reporting > Include).
Missing statements
Sometimes you may decide to submit the report without Financial Statements from certain
Partners (e.g. if a Beneficiary cannot submit its individual Financial Statement on time). If
this happens, you will be asked to confirm that you are aware of this and that therefore
these costs will not be considered for the current payment. The participant's costs will be
considered zero for this reporting period, but they will be able to declare their costs in the
next financial report (next reporting period).
Submit the report to the Granting Authority
The Coordinator must submit all parts of the periodc report together (all the individual
Financial Statements and Part B of the Technical Report): My Projects > Actions > Manage
Project > Periodic Reporting > Submit to EU. The system will automatically generate the
report with explanations of the use of resources and the periodic Summary Financial
Statements, which includes the request for payment.
Acceptance or rejection by the Granting Authority
The Granting Authority will either:
• accept the report and start preparing the payment or
64EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
• ask for changes to it — which means that the process described above starts
again.
Payment
When the Granting Authority approves the payment, the amount due will be paid out to
the Coordinator (within 90 days of receiving the report)
If the amount due is above the interim payment ceiling (90% of the maximum grant
amount), the amount due will be lowered.
The Granting Authority will send a letter to inform about the payment. After receiving the
letter, the Coordinator has 30 days to submit observations, if needed. In case of
observations, the Granting Authority will send a confirmation letter to state its final
position.
Final report
The Periodic Reporting Module (and periodic reports) are also used for the final report (report
for the last reporting period, to close the grant). The system behaviour, screens and documents
used are the same.
Beneficiary termination reporting
If one of the Beneficiaries has to leave the consortium, the the Coordinator has to prepare a
termination report (Technical Report Part B and Financial Report) and a report on the
distribution of payments to this Beneficiary in the Grant Management System.
Details on the steps to follow are explained in the .
Links
• AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 6, 21, 22
• Detailed description of the Portal Grant Management System in the
• Horizon Europe Coordinators' Day 2022 event page (including recording of the event
and presentations)
• Communication to Horizon 2020 Beneficiaries: How to avoid errors when claiming costs
in H2020 grants
FAQ
• FAQ on Audit and Certificates
3.3.5 Communicating your project — Acknowledgement of EU
funding
Since the EU grants are financed by public funds, EU Beneficiaries are generally expected to
actively engage in communication activities, to promote the projects and to publicly
acknowledge the EU support.
Communicating and promoting the project
65EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
What does communication involve?
The communication activities must already be part of the proposal (either as a specific work
package for communication or by including them in another work package). Communication will
be taken into consideration as part of the award criteria.
A good communication plan should define clear objectives (adapted to various relevant
target audiences) and set out a description and timing for each activity.
With your communication activities you should draw the attention (general and specialised
audiences) to the EU policy area addressed by the call.
Regarding typical communication activities (and indicators to measure them), you can refer to
the communication network indicators we use for our own communication activities.
In addition, some programmes (e.g. Horizon Europe) may have more targeted communication
guidance (see Horizon Europe Programme Guide).
Good communication
• Starts at the outset of the action and continues throughout its entire lifetime
• Is strategically planned and not just ad-hoc efforts
• Identifies and sets clear communication objectives (e.g. have final and intermediate
communication aims been specified? what impact is intended? what reaction or change
is expected from the target audience?)
• Is targeted and adapted to audiences that go beyond the project's own community,
including the media and the public
• Chooses relevant messages (e.g. how does the action's work relate to our everyday
lives? why does the target audience need to know about the action?)
• Uses the right medium and means (e.g. working at the right level — local, regional,
national, EU-wide; using the right ways to communicate — one-way exchange (website,
press release, brochure, etc) or two-way exchange (exhibition, school visit, internet
debate, et.); where relevant, include measures for public/societal engagement on issues
related to the action)
• Is proportionate to the scale of the action.
Acknowledgement of EU funding
Beneficiaries of EU funding must display the EU flag and funding statement (“Funded by the
European Union” or “Co-funded by the European Union”) in all their communication and
dissemination activities and any infrastructure, equipment, vehicles, supplies or major result
results funded by the grant.
The EU flag and funding statement must be displayed in a way that is easily visible for the public
and with sufficient prominence.
EU funding must moreover be acknowledged in all types of public outputs (including patent
applications, EU standardisation of results), media contacts and other public statements.
The EU flag and funding statement are available in the Grant Agreement and on the Europa
website.
Links
66EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
• AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 17
• 60-minute workout webinar to increase the communication impact of your project
3.3.6 Dissemination & exploitation of project results
Since EU grants are financed by public funds, EU Beneficiaries moreover also expected to
disseminate their project results. In this way, the projects can benefit a larger group of persons
and reach wider target groups.
Several programmes will therefore ask you to upload results on dedicated results portals
(accessible through the Portal Projects & Results page).
Some programmes (e.g. Horizon Europe) will require more extensive dissemination and
exploitation activities (e.g. open access, exploitation obligation, etc; see Horizon Europe
Programme Guide).
In case of specific questions on intellectual property, the EU IP Helpdesk may provide support.
Links
• AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 16 and Annex 5
3.3.7 Checks, audits, reviews & investigations
In order to ensure sound financial management and compliance with the Grant Agreement
rules, the Granting Authority will perform project reviews and financial audits on participants.
For lump sum grants, since they do not use actual costs, there will be no financial audits focusing
on costs. Reviews will focus on the technical implementation of the action or other aspects of
the Grant Agreement.
Project reviews
The Granting Authority will regularly monitor the project implementation and check the proper
implementation of the action and compliance with the Grant Agreement obligations, including
assessing deliverables and reports.
In addition, the Granting Authority may also carry out in-depth project reviews. Those reviews
focus typically on the technical implementation of the project, but may also cover financial and
budgetary aspects or compliance with other obligations under the GA.
Audits
In addition, most programmes perform financial audits of participants in EU projects (often with
the help of outside audit firms).
Such audits will be performed in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. The
auditors comply with ethical requirements and will plan and perform relevant procedures in line
with the EU Grants Indicative Audit Programme, in order to obtain reasonable assurance that
the Financial Statements are free of material misstatement.
You will receive a draft audit report on which you will be able to provide your observations.
If systemic errors are found, the Granting Authority may extend the findings of the audit
results to non-audited Grant Agreements or non-audited periods.
67EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Anti-fraud strategy — OLAF investigations
In case of fraud suspicions, the Granting Authority will inform the European Anti-fraud Office
(OLAF), who may conduct more in-depth investigations.
OLAF also cooperates with national authorities (through information exchange, on-the-spot
checks, coordination of forensic audits etc).
Related Certifications
Certificate on the methodology for unit cost (CoMUC)
The CoMUC is a factual report produced by an independent auditor (using the template available
on Portal Reference Documents). Its purpose is to enable the granting authority to:
• identify your usual cost accounting practices
• check that you have used a suitable unit cost accounting methodology.
Submitting a CoMUC methodology certificate is voluntary. Doing so will help prevent problems
later on, if your grant is audited. If the certificate is approved, costs declared in line with this
methodology will not be challenged, unless you have concealed information for the purpose of
the approval.
For the MFF 2021-2027, only CEF and Digital Europe will be using this certification. For Horizon
Europe it has been replaced by the SPA (systems and process audit; see AGA — Annotated
Grant Agreement, art 24).
The certificate may be requested at any time during the implementation of the programme.
As a minimum, one project should have been started and the data available must give the
auditor enough of a basis to carry out the necessary procedures. Ideally, we would recommend
submitting the methodology after at least one reporting period has passed.
In case of subsequent changes to your methodology you should notify the Granting Authority.
You may also submit a new certificate reflecting the changes.
Links
• AGA — Annotated Grant Agreement, art 25
• EU Grants Indicative Audit Programme
• Commission Anti-fraud Strategy
• European Anti-fraud Office (OLAF) website
• Horizon Europe Coordinators' Day 2022 event page (including recording of the event
and presentations)
• Communication to Horizon 2020 Beneficiaries: How to avoid errors when claiming costs
in H2020 grants
FAQ
• FAQ on Audit and Certificates FAQ
68EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
3.3.8 Communicating with the Granting Authority
Formal notification
The formal notification channel (My Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Launch new
interaction with the EU > Formal Notification) can be used ONLY for correspondence requiring
acknowledgement of receipt, i.e.
• to dispatch replies to formal notifications received from the Granting Authority
and
• for communications under Article 19 of the Grant Agreement
information requests
o
information about events and circumstances which impact the action and
o
• whenever it is clearly stipulated in the Grant Agreement (e.g. declare conflict of interest,
force majeure).
Portal Messaging Facility
The two Portal Messaging Facilities should be used for all other communications:
• Participant Register: My Organisations > Actions > Modify Organisation
• Grant Management System: My Projects > Actions > Manage Project > Process
Communications)
The Grant Management System Messaging Facility can be used only by the Coordinator.
4. Procurement
EU calls for tenders are published both on the Portal and on the TED — Tenders Electronic Daily
web site.
Currently, calls for tenders are published under the Portal Search funding & tenders page of the
Portal and the users are then redirected to the e-Tendering website for the submission of
tenders and documentation.
Read about public procurement procedures in the Portal Procurement section and the
eProcurement wiki.
5. Prizes
Prizes are also published on the Portal (Search funding & tenders page).
6. Financial instruments
Financial instruments (debt and equity instruments) are not published on the Portal, but they
are accessible via a direct link to the Europa Access to finance website, where you can locate
banks or funds which provide risk finance supported by the EU.
7. Working as an expert
69EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Introduction
The EU services managing grants and tenders frequently make use of different types of
independent experts to assist them with the implementation, evaluation and monitoring of their
funding programmes. These include:
• Evaluators
• Observers
• Ethics evaluators
• Monitors
• Ethics monitors
• business coaches
As an expert you perform this work as an independent individual and do NOT represent a
company or organisation.
The EU services recruit experts from the Portal Expert Database, where you can register at
any time. Registration is open to experts of any nationality including those outside of the EU
and Associated Countries.
To find out exactly what type of knowledge and skills we are looking for, see call for expression
of interest.
Working as an expert in short:
• Place of work: All or part of the evaluation and monitoring may be carried out at your
home or place of work (remote evaluation), or at the offices of the service concerned
(usually Brussels or Luxembourg), depending on the type of work to be done. Project
review sessions and audits, involving project representatives, may take place either at
the service’s offices or on the Beneficiaries' premises.
• Conflicts of interest: You will NOT be appointed for proposals or projects if you have
a vested interest that could influence the way you evaluate them. For more detail, please
see the section on Contracting and payments and the Model Contract for Experts.
• Confidentiality: If you are going to be handling classified information, you will need
security clearance before you can sign a contract.
• Remuneration: As an expert, you will normally receive EUR 450 for each full day
worked. However for remote evaluation and ethics review, we have developed a new
simplified methodology to calculate the amounts, please see details in the contracting
& payment section. Your travel and subsistence costs will be refunded.
• Amount of work: Projects are usually monitored and evaluated in sessions lasting 15
days a year at most. The number of proposals you assess will largely depend on the
area concerned. An independent expert may normally earn up EUR 90 000 in a four
calendar year period (counting fees only and at the current rate this equals 200 days).
In depth - working as an expert:
• How you can become an expert: start with registering as an expert
• You will be offered to sign a contract, if you are selected as an expert. To find out more
visit the Contracting & Payment page.
• Find out more what steps experts follow during proposals evaluation or project
monitoring under experts roles and tasks.
70EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Links
• Model contract for experts
• Rules on Methodology for expert fees for remote evaluation and ethics review
• Presentation of the facilities for expert evaluators at the Covent Garden building in
Brussels video
• IT Helpdesk
FAQ
• FAQ section for experts
7.1 Expert registration
Registering as an expert
To work as expert, you will first need to register.
To register, go to the Experts' page on the Funding & Tenders Portal. To access the registration
forms, you'll need an EU Login account, which you can set-up on the same website if you don't
yet have one.
Once you've done this, you can log in to your account any time and view, update or complete
your profile in “My Expert Area”.
Click on the "Register as an expert" button. To create your profile, you'll need to specify:
• personal details, knowledge of languages, education and training
• area of expertise
• professional experience (employment, past involvement in EU research programmes,
publications or other achievements...)
To find out exactly what type of knowledge and skills we are looking for, see the call for
expression of interests.
Privacy
Once you have completed all sections and your profile status appears as 'valid', you become
eligible for selection for an assignment. However, registration as an expert in the database
does not guarantee automatic selection. The EU services will select experts according to their
needs of expertise.
If you are selected, you will be contacted directly by the service concerned.
Selection of experts
Experts will be selected for assignments from the database of experts who registered in My
Expert Area.
The experts will be selected for each assignment on the basis of the specific expertise needed.
For each assignment (e.g. evaluation of a call or monitoring of projects), a 'pool' of experts
is drawn-up on the basis of the following criteria:
71EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
• Experts have a high level of skills, experience and knowledge in the relevant
area, including project management, innovation, exploitation, dissemination
and communication. Where relevant, inter-disciplinary experts, those with
expertise in appropriate disciplines of the social sciences and humanities, as well as
gender specialists are included in the 'pool'.
• If this condition is satisfied, the 'pool' should have a balanced composition in terms
of various skills, experience and knowledge, geographical diversity and
gender. With respect to gender, the policy of the EU is one of equal opportunities for
women and men and, in this context, we have a target of 40% of the under-represented
sex in evaluation panels and expert groups.
• A private-public sector balance is assured, if appropriate.
• Experts are regularly rotated by ensuring that individual experts do not work more
than 200 days activities within consecutive 4 calendar years (EUR 90 000 EUR). With
respect to evaluations in particular, for each call, at least 25% of experts included in the
'pool' should be newcomers, i.e. not have evaluated for the call in the previous 3 years.
The 'pool' of experts is drawn-up well in advance of the assignment in question and the final
list of experts selected from the initial 'pool' is made once the precise needs in terms of expertise
are known, e.g. in the case of an evaluation, after the call deadline once the proposals are
known. Consequently, extra experts are generally included in the 'pool' to ensure the expertise
required is covered and to foresee a sufficient reserve, should some no longer be in a position
to carry out the task.
7.2 Signing a contract and payment
Contracts
If you are selected as an expert, you will be offered a contract to be signed and managed
through the Funding & Tenders Portal. This contract (including its annexes) defines all the
rights, obligations, terms and conditions applicable to you. It is not an employment contract or
agreement.
Your contract will be based on the Model Contract for Experts. Some of the terms and conditions
in your contract will vary, depending on the type of expert activity that you are asked to carry
out. The contract will indicate
• whether or not your work will involve travel,
• the maximum number of days of work that you will be paid for and
• the planned calendar for your work.
Your correspondence with the EU services
All your correspondence with us is electronic. You should use only My Expert Area (Funding &
Tenders Portal) to communicate about your contract, e.g.
• submitting your identity/bank account details
• signing your contract (electronic-signature)
• making requests for payment and providing related supporting documents.
For any other correspondence related to your contract that the My Expert Area does not
currently support, use the email address indicated in Article 21.3 of your contract.
72EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Signing the contract
You must sign the contract online in My Expert Area on the Funding & Tenders Portal. You will
receive an email notification inviting you to do so, with a link to the contract.
The contract enters into force only once it has been signed by both parties. The contract must
be signed by both yourself and the EU service concerned by the day on which you start working
as an expert. Please do not forget to obtain permission from your employer to carry out your
expert activities if your employer requires this for outside activities – this is your responsibility.
You may start work as soon as the contract has entered into force.
If you have a contract to act as an evaluator or monitor, you will be granted access to the IT
system for the relevant proposals or project reports once the contract has entered into force.
Code of conduct
You need to adhere to the code of conduct in Annex 1 of the model contract, which includes
rules on the performance of the contract and obligations of impartiality and confidentiality.
Please carefully read Annex 1 before signing the contract.
Conflicts of interest
When contracting independent experts, the EU services ensure — to the best of their knowledge
- that you, as an expert, do not have any conflicts of interest on the activity that you are being
asked to undertake and, in particular, any proposal or project you are called upon to assess.
You should be independent, impartial and objective, and behave professionally at all times.
The contract you sign before starting work includes a declaration that you accept and will
abide by the Code of Conduct (Annex 1 of the contract). This means, amongst other things,
that
• you declare that no conflict of interest exists and
• you will inform the EU service concerned if you should discover that any such conflict
arises in the course of your duties.
• If, at the time that you sign the contract, you are already aware that you may be in a
position of conflict of interest, you are required to declare this.
Conflict of Interest impact?
To avoid situations of conflicts of interest, the EU services may withdraw experts from
evaluation or monitoring duties if it deems that this is necessary. You will be informed if this
happens to you and advised as to what to do if you need to take action.
• If you knowingly conceal a conflict of interest and this is discovered during your activities
as an expert, you will be dismissed with immediate effect, your contract will be
terminated and the measures laid down in the contract will be taken.
Example: Submitting proposals for funding while working as an expert
• If you submit a research proposal for evaluation, you are not necessarily excluded from
acting as an expert evaluator, provided that you declare it and that there is no conflict
of interest. In this case, you will not be assigned to evaluate your own proposal or any
proposals which may be competing with it.
We strongly advise you make sure that you have properly understood the provisions laid down
in the Code of Conduct, especially which situations are automatically considered to be a conflict
of interest.
Confidentiality
73EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
If your role involves handling classified information, you will need security clearance before
entering into a contract.
The EU publishes an annual list of experts who have worked for us but we do not disclose who
has worked on which proposals.
Before assigning a project to you for monitoring activities, the EU services may inform the
project consortium of your name. The consortium may reject our choice of expert in the
interests of commercial confidentiality.
Payment
Requests for payment
Once your work is completed, you will receive an e-mail inviting you to submit your request
for payment through My Expert Area on the Funding & Tenders Portal.
Travel expenses — When you claim your travel expenses, you should upload scanned copies of
all the original supporting documents as requested.
You must keep records and other supporting documents for at least two years after the payment
is made to show that you have complied in full with the terms of your contract.
Deadline — You should submit your request for payment within 30 days of receiving the email
invitation.
Bank account — You should request payment on one of the bank accounts which you have listed
in My Expert Area.
The EU services will make payments within 30 days of receiving the reports, deliverables or
completed payment requests (whichever comes latest) provided they are complete and
approved
Amount of the payment
The daily rate is EUR 450 for work including travel such as participating at evaluations,
monitoring activites or meetings at the commission or beneficiary premises. This is calculated
to the nearest half day (EUR 225) except in the following two cases:
• for remote work carried out by evaluators, any work that you are specifically asked to
carry out remotely will be paid in accordance with Article 4.1 of your contract.
• you are covered by one of the exceptional situations for which a zero fee contract must
be issued (e.g. for former EU staff in receipt of an allowance) or you requested that a
zero fee contract be issued
The contract sets out the maximum total number of days of work (and amount) that you can
be paid for. This is an upper ceiling. The actual amount that you will be paid is based on the
actual task assigned and worked; this may be less than the maximum amount.
• Please note that you will not receive payment for tasks that are not covered by the
contract (or an amendment to it) and which are not specifically assigned to you, either
via the relevant IT system, or in writing by us.
The reimbursement of travel expenses and payments of accommodation allowance and daily
allowance (see below) are made on request and in accordance with the Commission Rules on
the reimbursement of expenses of experts (see the annex of Commission Decision
C(2007)5858).
Travel expenses
74EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
If your contract includes activities involving travel, expenses are refunded for this travel -
normally between the address indicated in the contract (the address registered in your expert
profile) and the meeting venue indicated in Article 3.2 of the contract. If you exceptionally need
to travel to or from a different location than the address in the contract, you need our explicit
agreement prior to purchasing your tickets.
You should book your travel as soon as possible to keep costs reasonable, but you should NOT
book your travel before your contract has been signed by both Parties.
Accommodation and daily allowances
We will also pay accommodation allowances and daily allowances:
• accommodation allowance is EUR 100 per night
• daily allowance is a flat rate of EUR 92 to cover all expenditure at the place where
the meeting/work is held, including meals and local transport (bus, tram, metro, taxi,
parking, motorway tolls, etc.) as well as travel and accident insurance
• experts who live less than 100km from the meeting venue receive a daily allowance
of EUR 46, and are not eligible to receive the accommodation allowance
• allowances may be increased for disabled experts, see below.
Other expenses
Expenses that you incur as a result of special instructions received in writing from the EU
services, different from the contract terms, may be reimbursed in justified cases on presentation
of supporting documents. Please note that no other expenses will be reimbursed.
Taxation issues
You are obliged to ensure compliance with your national legislation on taxes and social security
law – this is your responsibility. Payments you receive are NOT exempted from national taxes.
However, if you are considered to supply a taxable service under national tax law and you are
registered for VAT as a natural person in an EU Member State, you can benefit from a VAT
exemption certificate for EU payments made under your contract.
Please note that in this case your invoice needs to bear a special indication “VAT exemption
/ European Union / Article 151 of Council Directive 2006/112/EC” (specific incidations are
mandatory for some countries, like Belgium, Luxembourg or Italy).
Further information on the VAT situation can be found in the FAQs on the Funding & Tenders
Portal.
Disabilities
If an expert's disability requires that a person accompany them when travelling, then the
travel expenses of that person will also be refunded upon prior request. The EU services will
also pay accommodation allowances and daily allowances to the accompanying person.
Keeping supporting documents:
You must keep records or other supporting documents for two years from the date of the
last payment made under the contract that the work relates to, when you work as an expert.
The EU services may ask you to provide these documents as evidence that the contract was
carried out correctly and that any expenses claimed are genuine.
75EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
7.3 Experts roles and tasks
If you have registered as an expert and have the required profile, the EU service will contact
you in due course to let you know whether you have been selected. This depends on whether
there are any proposals to be evaluated or projects to be monitored requiring your
particular expertise.
Roles and tasks assigned to experts
As an expert, you can perform a variety of roles and tasks:
1. Evaluators are responsible for evaluating proposals submitted in response to a call for
proposals.
Evaluators may also act as a rapporteur, chair, or vice-chair at consensus discussions
or meetings of panels of evaluators. Rapporteurs are responsible for drafting the
consensus report (CR) of a consensus meeting.
2. Observers provide the EU services with independent advice on the conduct and fairness
of all phases of the evaluation process, on how evaluators apply award criteria, and on
how to improve the procedure.
The observer may attend any meeting held during the proposal evaluation process and
drafts a report on the evaluation session observed.
3. Monitors assist EU services in monitoring the implementation of projects that have
received funding, taking into account work descriptions, reports and deliverables.
All experts' tasks are laid down in their contract and its annexes. See the Model Contract for
Experts for further details.
Proposal-evaluation process
The underlying principles to bear in mind during evaluation are:
• Excellence - projects must demonstrate a high level of quality in relation to the topics
and criteria set out in the calls
• Transparency - funding decisions must be based on clearly defined rules and
procedures, and applicants should receive adequate feedback on the outcome of the
evaluation
• Fairness and impartiality - all proposals must be treated equally and evaluated
impartially on their merits, irrespective of their origin or the identity of the applicants
• Confidentiality - all proposals and related data, knowledge and documents must be
treated in confidence
• Speed and efficiency - proposals should be evaluated and grants awarded and
administered as swiftly as possible, without compromising quality or breaking the rules
Award criteria
The award criteria to be applied by the evaluators are set for each programme in the call
conditions .
Thresholds may vary according to the work programme. For two-stage submission schemes,
thresholds and the maximum overall score may vary between the first and the second stage.
76EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Steps in the Process
The diagram below depicts the main steps of the evaluation process and highlights at which
stages the experts intervene
There are three main phases in the experts' involvement in the evaluation process.
Before starting their work, experts are briefed on evaluation procedures (including remote
evaluation), the topics of the relevant calls for proposals and the terms of their contracts. This
briefing can be done in Brussels or remotely (e.g. web-streaming).
For each proposal, experts presents their evaluation results in an individual evaluation
report (IER), explaining the evaluation scores. Expert evaluators also pre-screen each
proposal (on the basis of the applicant's ethics self-assessment) to see if it raises ethical
issues. All evaluation forms are completed online. This report can be completed and
signed remotely or in Brussels.
In principle, proposals will be evaluated initially by at least three experts (in a number of
cases, five or more). However, for the first stage in two-stage submission schemes and
for low-value grants, only two experts may be involved.
A consensus group is convened in order for all the experts who assessed the proposals
in question to discuss the individual evaluation reports and agree on comments and
scores.
The consensus group discussion is led by a moderator (normally an official from the
concerned EU service), who seeks a consensus and ensures that proposals are evaluated
in a fair manner and in line with the established criteria.
The consensus group discussion results in a consensus report (CR) including
justifications of scores and dissenting views, if any. The moderator is responsible for
ensuring that the consensus report reflects the consensus reached. The report is signed
by the rapporteur and the experts evaluating the proposal discussed.
The discussion usually takes place in Brussels and includes experts who participated in
the individual evaluation. It is also possible to convene a remote consensus group.
Panel review consists of reviewing all the proposals within a call, or part of a call, to:
• ensure that the consensus groups have been consistent in their evaluations;
77EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
• if necessary, propose a new set of marks or comments; and
• resolve cases where a consensus could not be reached and a minority view was
recorded in the consensus report.
Exceptionally, in some cases, justified by the specific call circumstances, the outcome of
the consensus group will constitute the final result of the evaluation, and there will be no
panel review. These cases will be signalled in the guidance documents.
The panel review is led by a panel chairperson (normally an official from the concerned
EU service) who ensures fair and equal treatment of the proposals.
The panel review should result in a panel report which includes the evaluation
summary report (ESR) for each proposal, a list of proposals passing all thresholds,
along with a final score, (panel ranked list) and, where necessary, the panel's
recommendations for priority order in the event of equal scores, using the procedure set
out in the work programme. A rapporteur may be appointed to draft the panel report.
Monitoring projects (Technical review)
Projects are monitored to assess the work carried out over a given period and make
recommendations to the EU services. Monitoring may cover scientific, technological and other
aspects of the implementation of the project and Grant Agreement.
The monitoring expert's task is to advise the EU services on how the project has progressed
with regard to:
• the initial work plan
• deliverables
• planned and used resources
• relevance of the objectives
• scientific and industrial quality
• management procedures and methods
• Beneficiaries' contributions, and
• the expected potential impact in scientific, technological, economic, competitive and
social terms, and the plans for the use and dissemination of results.
Depending on the project's complexity and progress, the review may include remote work
entailing reading and analysis of the Grant Agreement, grant decision and other background
information and deliverables and finally drafting the report. The expert may also be required to
attend project meetings at the EU services offices or at the premises of the Beneficiary.
The EU services may require the expert to carry out on-site technical audits to verify whether
critical milestones are being met, or to assist in carrying out research integrity (scientific
misconduct) analysis during implementation.
Types of project monitoring
• Periodic monitoring provided for in the Grant Agreement (generally linked to payment)
• Ad-hoc monitoring, which the EU services can request at any time, where necessary,
and which may involve reviewing financial and technical aspects, or only technical
aspects.
78EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Monitoring process
• Review meeting and assessment - experts read all relevant documents before and
attends the review meeting. They then assess the project on the basis of the written
material and information provided at the meeting. In the event of remote monitoring,
the assessment is based on written documents only.
• Monitoring report - the expert draws up the monitoring report on a project, and the
EU service sends it to the consortium via the Coordinator, but it is not made public. If
more than one expert is involved in project monitoring, they issue a single consolidated
report written by a rapporteur.
• Recommendations - the monitor will also assist the EU services by recommending any
changes that may be required. However, the final decision on recommendations and
changes is taken by the EU services alone.
• Observations - Beneficiaries may comment on the monitoring report within one month
of receiving it.
• Project assessment by the EU services? - taking the experts' formal
recommendations into account, the EU services informs the Coordinator of its decision,
which, however, may depart from the recommendations. It may entail
accepting or rejecting the deliverables
o
allowing the project to continue in its existing form
o
suggesting modifications, or
o
taking steps to terminate the Grant Agreement or to exclude a Beneficiary from
o
taking part.
8. Help
In case you need further help, please contact:
• IT Helpdesk — for IT-related questions
• Participant Validation Helpdesk — for legal questions relating to participant validation
and LEAR appointment
• Europe Direct — for general questions on the EU
If you have specific questions relating to a funding programme or call, please contact the
competent EU service through the functional mailbox mentioned in the the call documentation
or in the Portal Support page.
For Horizon Europe, please contact the Research Enquiry Service or your National Contact Point.
79EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
Acronyms
AC Associated country
AGRIP Promotion of Agricultural Products Programme (EU programme)
AE Affiliated entity (type of participant)
AMIF Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (EU programme)
AoR Acknowledgement of receipt
AP Associated partner (type of participant)
AuCo Audit contact (role)
BA Bank account
BAF Bank account file
BEN Beneficiary (type of participant)
CFS Certificate on the financial statements
COO Coordinator (type of participant)
COSME Programme for the Competitiveness of Enterprises and SMEs (EU programme)
CR Consensus group report
DoA Description of action (Annex 1 GA)
DoH Declaration of honour
EDF European Defence Fund (EDF)
EEN Enterprise Europe Network
EIC European Innovation Council (EU service)
EIT European Institute of Technology (EU service)
EMFAF European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund (EU programme)
ERC European Research Council (EU service)
ESR Evaluation summary report
ESTAT Eurostat (EU service)
EURATOM European Atomic Energy Community
FTP Funding & Tenders Portal (eGrants/Procurement IT tool)
FCA Financial capacity assessment
FEL/LEF Legal entity file
FPA/SGA Framework partnership agreement/Specific grant agreement
FSC Facility security clearance
FTS Financial transparency system (EU website)
GA/AGA/MGA Grant agreement
GF/PGF/MIM Guarantee Fund/Participant Guarantee Fund/Mutual Insurance Mechanism
HE Horizon Europe (EU programme)
IBA Actions by invitation (named Beneficiaries and SGAs)
IER Individual evaluation report
IO International organisations (type of participant)
IPR Intellectual property rights
ISF Internal Security Fund
JRC Joint Research Center (EU service, Type of participant)
JUs Joint undertakings (EU service)
JUST Justice Programme (EU programme)
K
LE Legal entity
LEAR Legal entity appointed representative
LSIGN Legal signatory
MFF Multi-annual financial framework
MGA/GA/AGA Model grant agreement
MSCA Marie Skłodowska-Curie actions (part of Horizon Europe)
OLAF European Anti-Fraud Office (EU service)
80EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Online Manual: V1.1 – 15.09.2022
PaCo Participant contact (role)
PIC Participant identification code
PNS Participant notification system
PTRO Partial takeover
RAO Responsible authorising officer (all levels AO, AOD, AOSD) (role)
REA Research Executive Agency (EU service)
RFCS Research Fund for Coal and Steel (EU programme)
SAL Security aspects letter
SME Small Medium Sized Enterprises
T
UCPM Union Civil Protection Mechanism (EU programme)
UTRO Universal takeover
VAT Value added tax
81EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
IMPORTANT NOTICE
This guidance document sets out the rules for the central validation of entities
participating in EU funding/tenders managed through the EU Funding & Tenders Portal.
It sets out the procedures which the EU Central Validation Service (hosted within the
European Research Executive Agency, REA) will use for the tasks conferred in this context,
notably, the legal entity validation and LEAR appointment.
In addition, the Central Validation Service has also been mandated to help the EU services
with and some ancillary tasks to assist the EU granting authority/contracting authority
services, such as preparation of the financial capacity assessment, ownership control
assessment, etc.
Help
In case of doubt, please refer to the EN version (original).
If you have general enquiries on the validation process for organisations not having a
Participant Identification Code (PIC), please contact the Research Enquiry Service
(europa.eu).
2EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
HISTORY OF CHANGES
Publication
Version Change
Date
1.0 06.02.2018 ▪ Initial version.
2.0 06.11.2018 ▪ Self-declaration on validity of the accounts added.
▪ Changes to explanations for NGOs and research organisation status.
▪ New rules for LEAR appointment (requirement to be employed by the
participant).
▪ Language regime for financial supporting documents.
▪ Update to the new Financial Regulation and EU Funding and Tenders
Portal.
3.0 24.08.2020 ▪ Update guidance in the ‘Important Notice’ box.
▪ Update to the new policy on protection of individuals with regard to the
processing of personal data by the European Union institutions.
▪ Clarifications on the notion of ‘foreign companies’, ‘private law bodies with
a public service mission’.
▪ Update to the fines and sanctions in case of irregularities or false
declarations.
▪ Enlargement of the notion of ‘State services’ that are part of the
administration of the State.
▪ New rules in accordance with the SME Recommendation (e.g. the ‘two
year rule’).
▪ Adoption of a unique and corporate definition of ‘International
organisation’.
▪ Clarification of the role of LEAR for natural person.
▪ Clarification of rules of entities covered by a guarantor and financial
documents for a natural person.
4.0 01.01.2022 ▪ Language disclaimer.
▪ Update to new MFF (2021-2027).
▪ Clarification of the definition of specialised entities set up by international
organisations (with/without legal personality).
▪ Exception for the validation of Common Foreign Security Policy missions
set up by the Council of the European Union.
▪ New special legal status for mid-capitalisation enterprises (mid-cap).
▪ New subtype legal statuses for international organisations, namely
‘International European Research Organisations for Horizon Europe’ (HE
IERO) and ‘International Organisations of European Interest for Digital
Europe’ (DEP IOEI);
▪ Update to definition of ‘research organisation’.
▪ Update to self-declaration of ‘secondary or higher education
establishment’.
▪ New section on ownership control assessment.
5.0 01.02.2024 ▪ Drafting changes and clarifications in all sections. Revision of numbering,
background and introduction.
▪ NGO definition adapted to new Financial Regulation.
▪ Updates regarding required documents.
▪ VAT document/exemption not older than one (1) year (instead of six (6)
months).
▪ LEAR appointment letter and declaration of consent to EES merged.
▪ Simplification of the rule regarding proof of legal representative
3EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
empowerment in the context of LEAR appointment.
▪ Complete revision of section on ownership control.
4EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Table of contents
1. Introduction ............................................................................................................................ 6
2. Legal entity validation ............................................................................................................. 6
2.1. Legal entity validation and specific legal statuses: Criteria and conditions ..................................... 6
2.1.1 Legal entity validation ....................................................................................................... 7
2.1.2 Exception: Validation of private entities without legal personality ........................................... 7
2.1.3 Exception: Validation of ministries, specialised entities of IOs and certain EU bodies ................. 8
2.1.4 Specific legal statuses ....................................................................................................... 9
2.2 Documents and information to provide .................................................................................... 14
2.2.1 General requirements and principles ................................................................................. 14
2.2.2 List of documents and information .................................................................................... 15
2.2.3 Incomplete or contradictory information ............................................................................ 17
2.3 Validation and effective date .................................................................................................. 18
2.4 Modification of validations ...................................................................................................... 18
2.4.1 Validation updates .......................................................................................................... 18
2.4.2 Corrections of validations ................................................................................................ 19
2.5 Ex-post verifications carried out by the EU — Irregularities and/or false declarations .................... 19
3. Validation of the LEAR appointment ...................................................................................... 20
3.1 Validation of the LEAR appointment: General requirements and principles ................................... 20
3.1.1 Role of the LEAR ............................................................................................................ 20
3.1.2 Position of the LEAR........................................................................................................ 20
3.1.3 Legal representative ....................................................................................................... 21
3.1.4 Timing of the LEAR appointment ...................................................................................... 21
3.2 List of documents and information .......................................................................................... 21
3.3 LEAR replacement ................................................................................................................. 25
3.4 Ex-post verifications carried out by the EU — Irregularities and/or false declarations .................... 25
4. Financial capacity assessment ............................................................................................... 25
4.1 Financial capacity assessment: Criteria and conditions .............................................................. 25
4.2 Documents and information to provide .................................................................................... 26
4.2.1 General requirements and principles ................................................................................. 26
4.2.2 List of documents and information .................................................................................... 27
4.2.3 Incomplete or contradictory information ............................................................................ 30
4.3 Duration of validity and renewal ............................................................................................. 31
4.4 Modification of the assessment ............................................................................................... 31
4.5 Ex-post verifications carried out by the EU — Irregularities and/or false declarations .................... 31
5. Ownership control assessment .............................................................................................. 31
5.1 Ownership control assessment: Criteria and conditions .............................................................. 31
5.2 Documents and information to provide .................................................................................... 32
5.2.1 General requirements and principles ................................................................................. 32
5.2.2 List of documents and information .................................................................................... 33
5.2.3 Incomplete or contradictory information ............................................................................ 34
5.3 Duration of validity and renewal ............................................................................................. 34
5.4 Modification of the assessment ............................................................................................... 34
5EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
1. Introduction
In order to receive EU funding/tenders (i.e. grants, procurements, prizes,
contribution agreements, etc), applicants need to fulfill a certain number of conditions
which must be checked before any funding can be awarded to them.
Some of these checks are done centrally by the EU Central Validation Service
through the Funding & Tenders Portal Participant Register, set up in accordance with
Articles 128 and 147 of the EU Financial Regulation 2018/10461 as central repository
and electronic data interchange area for participants.
This guidance sets out the rules that the Central Validation Service will use for these
checks. They currently cover:
− legal entity validation (also called ‘PIC validation’)
− LEAR appointment
− collecting the financial information for the financial capacity assessment (also
called ‘FCA’)
− ownership control assessment (also called ‘OCA’).
For these checks, the participants will be contacted directly by the Central Validation
Service and asked to submit the necessary information and supporting documents via
the Participant Register. This happens normally during preparation of the first grant,
procurement, prize or contribution agreement that successfully passed the evaluation
stage, but can also occur later during subsequent applications or in case of changes.
All data and documents will be treated as confidential.
Personal data will be handled in accordance with Regulation 2018/17252 to ensure
compliance with the principles of transparency, proportionality, impartiality and
legality. For the details, please refer to the Funding & Tenders Portal Privacy
Statement (available on Portal > Legal Notices).
2. Legal entity validation
2.1. Legal entity validation and specific legal statuses: Criteria and
conditions
One of the main tasks of the Central Validation Service is the validation of new legal
entities applying for EU grants, procurements, prizes and contribution agreements.
Legal entity validation is a requirement under the Financial Regulation. It serves to
ensure that only verified entities can enter into financial relations with the EU and to
avoid legally invalid contracts.
Legal entity validation is needed only once, to get the legal entity information and
1 Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 July 2018 on
the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union, amending Regulations (EU) No
1296/2013, (EU) No 1301/2013, (EU) No 1303/2013, (EU) No 1304/2013, (EU) No 1309/2013, (EU) No
1316/2013, (EU) No 223/2014, (EU) No 283/2014, and Decision No 541/2014/EU and repealing
Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 (OJ L 193, 30.7.2018, p. 1).
2 Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the
protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by the Union institutions,
bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Regulation (EC) No
45/2001 and Decision No 1247/2002/EC (OJ L 295, 21.11.2018, p. 39).
6EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
participant identification code (PIC) validated. Once validated, the participants can
enter into financial relations with the EU and use the PIC for all EU actions managed
through the Funding & Tenders Portal. The PIC will be valid for all ongoing application
procedures and signature in the system, but also for any type of EU funding in the
future — without having to re-register or be re-validated.
This is why the standards for PIC validation are applied consistently, independently of
the specific call/application/tender procedure that triggers the validation. The same
criteria and checks are applied for grants, procurements, prizes, contribution
agreements, etc, as well as for low and high value contracts.
The validation comprises two distinct actions: (a) the verification that the participant
exists as legal entity capable of entering into financial relations with the EU, including
correctness of the participant’s legal data (legal form, address, etc) and (b) the
verification of certain specific legal statuses that are used in EU funding programmes
and recorded centrally in the Participant Register.
2.1.1 Legal entity validation
‘Legal entity’ means a natural person or an entity created and recognised by law as a
legal person. It must have legal personality and, acting on its own account and in its
own name, be able to exercise rights and be subject to obligations.
Specific cases
❖ Natural persons (including self-employed persons; see below) — Are by default
considered as being legal entities. However, the Central Validation Service will refuse
validation of persons that cannot legally enter into contractual relations with the EU
(e.g. persons under age).
❖ Branches — Are not regarded as legal entities, since they do not have legal
personality distinct from that of their mother-company. The fact that they are
registered in national official registers is not relevant. It will be their mother-company
that will be considered as legal entity for the purposes of the legal entity validation in
the Participant Register. The same applies to branches established in a different
country or branches of entities such as non-profit organisations, NGOs, etc.
❖ Foreign companies (company establishments which are registered with a special
status in the official register, e.g. ‘société de droit étranger’) — Will not be regarded
as legal entities, since they do not have legal personality distinct from that of their
mother-company. It will be their mother-company that will be considered as legal
entity for the purposes of the legal entity validation in the Participant Register (the
one registered in the country of incorporation).
❖ Entities set-up within (or under) a parent organisation (such as
departments/centers/offices, without legal personality, despite having administrative
or budgetary autonomy, own VAT number/fiscal code/number of registration, etc) —
Cannot be regarded as legal entities and are considered as belonging to their parent-
organisation. It will be their parent organisation that will be considered as legal entity
for the purposes of the legal entity validation in the Participant Register.
2.1.2 Exception: Validation of private entities without legal personality
By way of exception, the Financial Regulation allows for certain ‘entities without legal
personality’ to be eligible for EU grants. Such entities can therefore be validated in
the Participant Register, provided they meet the conditions set out in Article
197(2)(c) of this Regulation:
7EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
− their representatives have the capacity to undertake legal obligations on behalf
of the entity
and
− the entity offers equivalent guarantees for the protection of the EU financial
interests as a legal person, in particular equivalent financial and operational
capacity (— both conditions must be fulfilled).
This exception aims at private entities, i.e. associations or similar entities with
permanent structures (secretariat, management board, assembly, etc.) that have
their own activities, but just lack formal legal personality.
Concerning the first condition, the entity must prove its representatives' capacity to
undertake legal obligations on its behalf. This condition is not met when the
obligations are assumed on behalf of the representatives themselves or on behalf of
the owner(s) of the entity.
Concerning the second condition, the entity must prove the following elements:
− existence of patrimony/assets/capital separated and different from those of its
members/owners
and
− rules ensuring that creditors can rely on such patrimony/assets/capital and
that, in case of liquidation/insolvency, creditors are reimbursed prior to the
repartition of the patrimony/assets/capital among the owners/members (—
both conditions must be fulfilled and proved by supporting documents).
This exception only applies for participation in EU grants; entities without legal
personality cannot participate in EU tenders.
2.1.3 Exception: Validation of ministries, specialised entities of IOs and
certain EU bodies
By way of exception, the Central Validation Service will also accept the following
public entities without legal personality to be validated in the Participant Register:
− the EU Joint Research Centre (JRC) (explicitly declared eligible by Articles
176(2) and 197(4) of the Financial Regulation)
− ministries, executive services which are part of the public administration of a
(central or federated) State and directly linked to the government and other
services which are part of the legislative or judicial administration, in
accordance with the official organisation of the State
− assimilated international organisations referred to in Article 156(2) of the
Financial Regulation
− specialised entities set up by international organisations, that lack legal
personality
− Common Foreign Security Policy (CFSP) missions and EU special
representatives set up by the Council of the European Union.
Departments/directorates/units/offices and other entities set up within a Ministry (or
within an executive or other service) without legal personality are considered as part
of the same Ministry (or service) and cannot be considered as independent legal
8EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
entities (e.g. schools, libraries, etc). They will have to use the PIC of their parent
organisation to participate in EU grants, procurements, prizes, etc.
2.1.4 Specific legal statuses
In addition, the validation covers the following specific legal statuses that are used in
certain EU funding programmes:
− private entity or public body
− non-profit or for profit organisation
− small or medium sized enterprise (SME)
− middle-capitalisation enterprise (mid-cap)
− non-governmental organisation (NGO)
− civil society organisation (CSO)
− international organisation (IO)
− research organisation
− secondary or higher education establishment.
An entity may be categorised in more than one of these legal statuses (i.e. non-profit,
public body, research organisation, international organisation, etc.).
The practical relevance of these statuses (and what happens if they change) is
established at the level of the different funding programmes, and sometimes even at
the level of the call for proposals/call for tender.
Moreover, not all of these statuses are systematically checked and validated by the
Central Validation Service. Some of them are self-declarations or self-assessments.
This means that the participants are solely responsible for the correctness of the
information they provide (in the self-declaration/self-assessment).
The Central Validation Service may however — at any time — carry out checks on
self-declared/self-assessed statuses against supporting documents and ask for
clarifications.
In case of false declarations, the EU services may:
− withdraw and correct the validated status(es)
− terminate/withdraw on-going grants, procurements, prizes, contribution
agreements, etc (and recover any undue amounts)
− impose financial penalties or administrative sanctions, including exclusion from
future EU funding (grants, procurements, prizes, contribution agreements,
etc.; see Articles 135 to 145 of the Financial Regulation)
− inform the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
Private entity or public body
'Private entity' means an entity established under private law.
‘Public body’ means an entity established as a public body by national law, or an
9EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
international organisation.
‘Established as a public body by national law’ means:
− incorporated as a public body in the act of creation or recognised as a public
body by national law
and
− governed by public law (— both conditions must be fulfilled).
Criteria such as:
− mission or activity in the general interest (public service mission)
− the fact that the shares are owned by a public body (even if ownership reaches
up to 100% of the share capital)
− public financing
− state supervision and control
do NOT constitute sufficient evidence to qualify an entity as a public body, if the
above two conditions are not met.
Public bodies may however act and be subject to private law for some or most of their
activities, provided that, concerning their existence and their functioning, they are
subject to public law.
The two statuses (private entity and public body) are mutually exclusive, meaning
that you can only be validated as one or the other.
They are systematically checked against supporting documents and validated by the
Central Validation Service.
Specific cases
❖ Self-employed persons (persons who perform an activity independently and with
their own means, such as craftsmen and individuals exercising liberal, industrial and
commercial professions) — Are regarded as ‘natural persons’, not as ‘private entities’;
the business/profession/activity they perform is not provided with independent legal
personality different from that of the person.
❖ Private law bodies with a public service mission3 — A legal entity
incorporated under private law/private legal form is not considered to be a public
body even if owned by the State/other public bodies and/or pursuing a public service
mission.
Non-profit
‘Non-profit entity’ means an entity that is non-profit making by its legal form or legal
purpose (e.g. charitable organisations), or that has a legal or statutory obligation not
to distribute profits to its shareholders or members.
All profits have to be reinvested in the same activity of the entity.
3 Article 62(1)(c)(vi) of Financial Regulation 2018/1046.
10EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Decisions on (not) distributing profits made by the managing board, associates,
stakeholders, members, or representatives and/or practices adopted by the entity to
not distribute profits and/or the absence of profits achieved are not sufficient proof of
the non-profit nature. The obligation not to distribute profits and/or the impossibility
to distribute profits must be based on law and/or the act of establishment/articles of
association/statutes, etc.
Whether the owners/founders of the entity are non-profit and whether the profits are
allocated to non-profit (or for profit) entities is irrelevant.
This status is systematically checked against supporting documents and validated by
the Central Validation Service.
Specific cases
❖ Public bodies — Are in principle regarded as non-profit by default.
❖ Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) — The classification as ‘non-
governmental organisation (NGO)’ is not relevant for the non-profit status, since in
most countries NGO is not a recognized legal form. By contrast, non-profit status is a
prerequisite for the self-declaration as NGO (see below).
Small or medium sized enterprise (SME)
‘Small or medium sized enterprise (SME)’ means a micro, small or medium-sized
enterprise as defined in the EU SME Recommendation 2003/361, i.e.:
− engaged in an economic activity, irrespective of its legal form (including, in
particular, self-employed persons and family businesses engaged in craft or
other activities, and partnerships or associations regularly engaged in an
economic activity)
and
− employing fewer than 250 persons (expressed in ‘annual working units’ as
defined in Article 5 of the SME Recommendation) and which have an annual
turnover not exceeding EUR 50 million and/or an annual balance sheet total
not exceeding EUR 43 million.4
An entity is considered to be engaged in an ‘economic activity’, if it proves to be
involved in any form of trade or activity done for remuneration or pecuniary interest
on the market. Thus, in general, any activity consisting in (directly or indirectly)
offering goods or services on a given market is an economic activity.
The following will NOT be considered economic activities:
− activities which do not entail (directly or indirectly) some sort of pecuniary
offset or
− activities for which there is no given/direct (or indirect) market or
− activities for which the income generated is not distinct from the personal
income of the entity’s members or shareholders.
4 The SME ceilings must be calculated by including the headcount of staff, the balance sheet total and the
turnover data of all relevant direct and indirect partner and linked enterprises in accordance with
Articles 3 to 6 of the Annex to the EU SME Recommendation 2003/361.
11EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
This status is self-declared. For calls where the SME status has an impact on eligibility
or funding (higher funding rate, etc), participants must go through a self-assessment
wizard.
Two-year rule — In accordance with Article 4.2 of the SME Recommendation, the SME
status depends on the ceilings for two consecutive accounting periods. Headcount and
turnover must stay below the ceilings for two accounting periods to obtain the SME
status; conversely, the status will be lost if they rise above the ceilings for two
consecutive periods.
Since the SME self-assessment looks at the information for only one accounting
period (the last one), the SME self-assessment result may be flawed. Participants that
were below the ceiling the year before, must contact the Central Validation Service
via the Participant Register in order to request a formal validation. This validation will
then take into account the two accounting periods.
The two-year rule does not apply for changes due to a merger or acquisition.
Enterprises that are subject to a change in ownership need to be assessed on the
basis of their shareholder structure at the time of the transaction. If the aggregated
headcount and financial data of the new structure exceed the SME ceilings, the SME
status is lost immediately from the date of the transaction5.
Participants whose SME status changes after registration must update their data in
the Participant Register. This is important not only for eligibility checks in grant
applications, but also for statistical purposes.
Specific cases
❖ Newly established enterprises (e.g. start-up companies) that do not yet have
closed accounts or companies without economic activity but expecting to enter
soon into the market — May also qualify as SMEs, as long as they are able to provide
a ‘bona fide estimate’ (in the form of a business plan) covering the period necessary
for the entity to generate turnover.
❖ Enterprises without turnover whose activity implies a long time-to market
— Are allowed to demonstrate that they are engaged in an economic activity by
showing the investments made and the likely expected return.
Middle-capitalisation enterprise (Mid-cap)
'Middle-capitalisation enterprise’ means an enterprise that is:
− not a micro-, small- or medium-sized enterprise (SME) under the EU SME
Recommendation 2003/361
and
− employing up to 3 000 persons6 , where the headcount of staff, including all
relevant direct and indirect partner and linked enterprises, is calculated in
accordance with Article 3 to 6 of the Annex to the Recommendation.
This status is self-declared. For calls where the mid-cap status has an impact on
eligibility or funding (higher funding rate, etc.), participants must go through the SME
5 See Recital 9 of Recommendation No, 2003/361/EC and the User Guide to the SME Definition (p. 14).
6 Expressed in ‘annual working units’ as defined in Article 5 of the Annex of EU recommendation
2003/361.
12EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
self-assessment wizard to make sure that they do not fall under the definition of SME,
and then to self-declare that the number of employees does not exceed 3 000
persons.
Non-governmental organisation (NGO)
‘Non-governmental organisations’ are organisations which are voluntary, independent
from government and non-profit, and which are not a political party or trade union.
This status is self-declared. Self-declarations will be accepted only by private entities,
which have been validated as ‘non-profit’.
Civil society organisation (CSO)
‘Civil society organisations’ are organisations from the ‘third sector’ of society, distinct
from government and business (i.e. private for profit entities).
This status is self-declared. Self-declarations will normally be accepted only by private
entities, which have been validated as ‘non-profit’.
International organisation (IO)
‘International organisation’ means an intergovernmental organisation (other than the
EU) established under international public law, including specialised entities — with or
without legal personality — set up by international organisations.
This status is systematically checked against supporting documents and validated by
the Central Validation Service.
For some EU funding programmes there are moreover specific subtypes of
international organisations:
− ‘international organisations of European interest for H2020 (H2020 IOEI)’, i.e.
international organisations with a majority of members that are EU Member
States or H2020 associated countries and whose main objective is promoting
scientific and technological cooperation in Europe
− ‘international European research organisations for Horizon Europe (HE IERO)’,
i.e. international organisations with a majority of members that are EU
Member States or Horizon Europe associated countries and whose main
objective is promoting scientific and technological cooperation in Europe
− ‘international organisations of European interest for Digital Europe (DEP IOEI)’,
i.e. international organisations with a majority of members that are EU
Member States or whose headquarters are in an EU Member State.
The H2020 IOEI subtype status is systematically checked against supporting
documents and validated by the Central Validation Service.
The HE IERO and DEP IOEI subtype statuses are self-declared. In the future, for calls
where the HE IERO and DEP IOEI statuses have an impact on eligibility or funding,
participants will also be asked to go through a self-assessment wizard.
Specific cases
❖ Entities set up as distinct bodies by an international organisation with a
special mission but which do not have explicit legal personality — Can be validated
as with legal personality, if they meet any of the following criteria:
− they have treaty-making capacity or
13EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
− they have capacity to act at international level independently from the
organisation that set them up (i.e. capacity to undertake legal obligations).
If such entities do not meet one of the above criteria, they can exceptionally be
validated as without legal personality (see section 2.1.3 above).
Research organisation
‘Research organisation’ means an entity that:
− is established as non-profit organisation as described above
and
− carries out research and/or technological development as its main objective.
The following are NOT considered research activities:
− supporting or financing research activities carried out by other entities
− promoting, managing or coordinating research activities.
Only entities that have research and/or development as their main objective can
qualify as research organisations. By contrast, entities that have research and/or
development as ancillary activities (even if regular and substantial, e.g. in museums
or hospitals) do not qualify as ‘research organisations’.
This status is self-declared. Self-declarations will be accepted only by entities, which
have been validated as ‘non-profit’.
Secondary or higher education establishment
‘Secondary or higher education establishment’ means an entity that is recognised as
such by its national education system and is able to deliver diplomas recognised by
the State.
It can be a public body or a private entity (see above). The national accreditation as a
secondary/higher education establishment is not sufficient to consider the entity as a
public body.
This status is self-declared.
2.2 Documents and information to provide
2.2.1 General requirements and principles
The legal validation of entities is in principle based on documents submitted by the
participants as scanned versions via the Participant Register. Originals should be kept
by the participants on file for checks, reviews, audits or investigations (can be
required by the EU services at any time).
In principle only official documents are accepted. Documents are considered as official
when they are delivered by official national authorities. Official documents can NOT be
replaced by self-declarations or by sworn or solemn statements before judicial or
administrative authorities, notaries or public officers.
As a general rule, documents are accepted in any of the EU official languages.
Participants may however be requested to submit an English free (unofficial)
translation to facilitate the validation process. Documents in non-EU languages will be
accepted only if accompanied by a free translation in English (and in case of doubt, a
14EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
certified/legal translation in English may be requested). Free translations should
always be accompanied by the copies of the original official documents.
The participants assume full responsibility for the content of the documents and the
accuracy of the translations, as well as for any information provided by other means
(e.g. by Participant Register message, etc).
In case of false declarations (or intentional manipulation of a translation), the EU
services may:
− withdraw and correct the validated status
− terminate/withdraw on-going grants, procurements, prizes, contribution
agreements, etc (and recover any undue amounts)
− impose financial penalties or administrative sanctions, including exclusion from
future EU funding (grants, procurements, prizes, contribution agreements, etc;
see Articles 135 to 145 of the Financial Regulation)
− inform the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
2.2.2 List of documents and information
The participants will be asked to submit the following documents and information:
1. Signed legal entity identification form7:
− Natural Person Form: in English
− Private Legal Entity Form: in English
− Public Legal Entity Form: in English.
2. Official VAT document or — if the entity is not registered for VAT — the proof of
VAT exemption, not older than one (1) year.
For the specific legal statuses, participants will be asked to submit the following
additional documents:
Status Documents to be submitted
Private entity A valid registration extract not older than one (1) year.
Documents older than one year may be accepted if valid for a
(including SME and mid-cap)
certain period of time expressly indicated in the same
document (e.g. valid for two years) and if submitted via the
Participant Register within this period of time.
Public body Copy of the act, law, decree or decision that established the
entity as a public body (or, if this does not exist, any other
official legal document that proves this).
Natural person Integral copy (legible) of valid identity card or passport (e.g. in
case of identity card, both sides must be provided).
7 Available at https://commission.europa.eu/publications/legal-entities_en.
15EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Entities without legal personality Copy of an official document attesting that the representatives
of the entity have the capacity to undertake legal obligations on
its behalf.
Copy of an official document attesting that the entity has the
same operational and financial viability as that of a legal entity:
i.e.
1. a document showing patrimony/assets/capital that
are separated and different from those of the
members/owners of the entity, and
2. a copy of the rules providing that creditors can rely
on this patrimony/assets/capital and — in case of
liquidation/insolvency — are reimbursed before the
patrimony/assets/capital are divided between the
owners/members.
Non-profit Copy of an official document attesting that the entity is non-
profit by its legal form or by its legal purpose, or that it has a
legal or statutory obligation not to distribute profits to
shareholders or individual members.
The certificate of tax exemption is only an indication of the
non-profit status and will therefore be assessed together with
other elements.
Small or medium sized enterprise (SME) The following documents must be provided for the participant
and mid-caps and for its linked and partner entities (in accordance with
Articles 3 to 6 of the Annex to the EU SME Recommendation
(— if expressly requested by the Central
2003/361):
Validation Service)
1. graph showing the complete ownership structure,
including all direct and indirect shareholders
2. proof of the direct and indirect shareholders/owners
and their respective percentage of interest and voting
rights
3. approved financial statements for the most recent
closed accounting period, including:
− balance sheet statement
− profit and loss account, clearly indicating the
amount of annual turnover from sales of goods
and services
− annexes to these documents and/or
accompanying notes, indicating (i) staff head
count and (ii) any equity participations in other
companies/downstream organisations with
exact percentage of the shares and voting rights
held. If the annexes/notes to the financial
statements do not contain the requested
information, other documents can be provided
that contain equivalent data (such as headcount
reports for social security purposes, extracts from
HR records certifying headcount, etc); in
exceptional cases, self-declarations can be
accepted
4. documents explaining the mechanisms of ownership
and control, corporate governance and decision-
making rules (e.g. statutes/articles of association and
shareholders’ agreements; memorandum of
16EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
understanding among shareholders, internal corporate
governance rules, etc)
Sworn or solemn statements before a judicial or
administrative authority, notary or public officer cannot replace
the above listed documents as proof of the SME or mid-cap
status.
The following documents must be submitted in the below
specific cases:
❖ Newly established enterprises (e.g. start-up companies) that
do not yet have closed accounts — Instead of approved
financial statements, a self-declaration must be provided,
including a bona fide estimate (in the form of a business plan)
for the entire period (financial years) necessary for the entity to
generate turnover.
❖ Enterprises without turnover whose activity implies a long
time-to market — In addition to the approved financial
statements, a self-declaration must be provided, including a
bona fide estimate (in the form of a business plan) for the
entire period (financial years) necessary to generate turnover,
including a declaration of the investment made and the likely
expected return (to demonstrate that, despite the lack of
turnover, the enterprise is engaged in an economic activity).
❖ Entities owned directly or indirectly by natural persons —
Self-declaration on the natural person(s) engagement in
economic activity and possible participations in other entities
must be provided. The template for the self-declaration will be
provided to participants during the validation process if specific
cases of ownership by natural persons are identified.
International organisation Copy of the international treaty creating the organisation under
international public law.
Research organisation Copy of an official document attesting research or technological
development as the main objective of the entity.
(— if expressly requested by the Central
Validation Service)
Secondary or higher education Copy of an official document attesting that the entity is
establishment recognised as ‘secondary or higher education establishment’ by
the national education system and is entitled to deliver
(— if expressly requested by the Central
diplomas recognized by the State.
Validation Service)
For other categories such as NGO, Civil Society Organisation, etc no supporting
documents are needed (unless exceptionally requested by the Central Validation
Service).
2.2.3 Incomplete or contradictory information
The Central Validation Service may use any publicly available information to clarify
questions about (and complement) the data or information provided by participants.
Participants may be required to confirm or explain the information submitted or
publicly available, or provide missing information within a reasonable time, if:
− findings do not match their declarations or statements
17EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
− the documents submitted are outdated (e.g. VAT document or extract of
registration no longer valid or more than one (1) year old)
− the provided information is illegible, incomplete, incorrect, contradictory or
unclear.
If participants do not respond in time, the Central Validation Service has the right
to refuse the validation (or finalise it on the basis of the information and documents
submitted or publicly available).
2.3 Validation and effective date
On the basis of the submitted information and documents, the participant will be
validated with the effective date of entry into force of the legal act establishing its
constitution or incorporation (unless the terms of the act stipulate another date).
That date will be, in order of precedence:
1. the date of registration in the country's’official registry (e.g. commercial
registry)
2. the date of publication in the national official journal
3. the date of the legal deposit of the act in the court registry
4. the date of signature of the parties.
When there is no act of constitution or incorporation, the participant will be
considered to exist since a standard default date.
The effective date for the SME and mid-cap status will be the accounts closure date of
the accounting period on which the assessment is based in accordance with Article
4(2) of the Annex of the SME Recommendation 2003/361. For newly established
enterprises that do not yet have closed accounts, the effective date is the date of
their creation.
The effective date of other specific legal statuses is the date in which the specific
status enters into force. This date may be the same as its effective date of
constitution or incorporation (or may differ, if the specific status has been acquired
later on).
2.4 Modification of validations
Modifications in the validation can be made in the following cases:
− following a request submitted by the participant to update the validation (e.g.
in case of changes in the participant’s legal situation such as change of
identity/legal form, name, address, status) or
− after checks, reviews, audits or investigations carried out by the EU services
which necessitate a correction.
2.4.1 Validation updates
In case of a change in the participant’s legal situation (identity/legal form, name,
address, status, etc), the participant must request an update of the validation.
18EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Requests to update a validation will be accepted, if submitted by the participant’s
LEAR and accompanied by the relevant supporting documents. If no LEAR has
been appointed yet in the Participant Register, requests for modification should be
submitted after the LEAR appointment has been validated.
The ‘effective date of the change’ will be the date on which the act establishing the
change enters into force (unless the terms of the act stipulate another date).
For SMEs and mid-caps, the effective date is the closure date of the accounting period
on which the change of status is based. For cases of mergers and acquisitions that
lead to the loss of the SME or mid-cap status, the effective date of change will be the
date when the ownership structure changed.
The impact and practical consequences of the changes depend on each funding
programme.
2.4.2 Corrections of validations
If a validation turns out to beincorrect (through an audit, ex-post check, investigation
or other means), it will be corrected by the Central Validation Service. The correction
will be registered with effect back to the effective date of the initial validation.
If the error is attributable to the Central Validation Service and its correction implies
disadvantages for the participant, the retroactive effect may exceptionally be waived,
if duly justified and in line with the principles of sound financial management and
proportionality.
If the error was the fault of the participant (intentional or unintentional), its
participation in on-going grants, procurements, prizes, contribution agreements, etc
may be terminated and undue amounts paid may be recovered. Moreover, the
participant may be fined and excluded from future EU funding (grants, procurements,
prizes, contribution agreements, etc; see Articles 135 to 145 of the Financial
Regulation). In addition, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) may be informed.
2.5 Ex-post verifications carried out by the EU — Irregularities and/or false
declarations
The EU services reserve the right to carry out — at any moment — checks, reviews,
audits or investigations.
If they find out that a participant did not meet the criteria for being validated or for
being validated with a specific legal status (e.g. due to false declarations), the
modification of the validation will be registered with retroactive effect back to the
effective date of the validation.
If in the meantime the participant already received EU grants, procurements, prizes,
contribution agreements, etc, their participation may be terminated/withdrawn and
undue amounts paid will be recovered.
In case of irregularities or false declarations, participants may moreover be fined and
excluded from future EU funding (grants, procurements, prizes, contribution
agreements, etc; see Articles 135 to 146 of the Financial Regulation).
In addition, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) may be informed.
19EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
3. Validation of the LEAR appointment
3.1 Validation of the LEAR appointment: General requirements and principles
In parallel with the legal entity validation, the Central Validation Service will contact
the participants to appoint their Legal Entity Appointed Representative (LEAR), i.e.
the single point of contact needed for the Participant Register and Funding & Tenders
Portal electronic exchange system.
The appointment of the LEAR in the Participant Register is mandatory for all
validated participants. Without LEAR it will NOT be possible to update the legal entity
data in the Participant Register, nor sign contracts electronically in the Funding &
Tenders Portal.
3.1.1 Role of the LEAR
The LEAR is the person officially appointed by the participant to handle their access
rights and key data in the Participant Register (legal and other data, certain access
rights in the electronic exchange system, etc.).
Once validated, it is the LEAR who is responsible for giving access rights to the Portal
electronic exchange system and who must ensure that the participant’s legal
information is always up to date.
The LEAR must enter and update on the ‘LEAR/Authorised User’ tab screen the names
of the:
− legal representatives and signatories for the organisation (so-called ‘LSIGNs’);
these are people who are able to commit the organisation legally by signing
contracts and authorising amendments to them and
− persons that may sign cost statements on behalf of the organisation (so-called
‘FSIGNs’).
If needed, the LEARs can delegate their tasks to one or more colleagues, who will act
as account administrators (so-called ‘AccAds’; delegation also through the
‘LEAR/Authorised User’ tab screen).
In case of changes, the LEAR must encode the change in the Participant Register and,
if needed, request validation and provide supporting documents.
For a detailed description of the LEAR rights and responsibilities, see the LEAR
appointment letter*.
3.1.2 Position of the LEAR
The LEAR is an administrative function that may be held by the participant’s legal
representative or another key person within the entity.
The LEAR must be someone employed in the entity (most commonly in the central
administrative services of the entity) and should be able to ensure the stability and
continuity that is needed to fulfil this role in order to honour the participant’s
contractual obligations.
Participants that are natural persons will automatically have the role of LEAR; in this
case the role cannot be attributed to a different person (but the LEAR can appoint an
account administrator).
20EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Each participant can only appoint one LEAR and must ensure to immediately replace
their LEAR in case they are no longer able to exercise the role (e.g. job change,
dismissal, death, etc; see section 3.3).
The participant assumes the full responsibility for the choice of the person they
appoint as LEAR.
3.1.3 Legal representative
The LEAR must be appointed by the participant’s legal representative. The legal
representative is a person duly authorised to act on behalf of the entity and to
commit it in its entirety vis-à-vis third parties.
Specific cases
❖ Persons tasked with the daily management — Can not be recognized as legal
representatives if they are not entitled to engage and represent the entity outside
ordinary day-to-day business matters.
The ‘daily management’ (‘gestion journalière’) is commonly understood as comprising
those acts that, because of their minor importance or the need for a prompt solution,
do not justify the intervention of the management bodies. It consists of ordinary
business and execution of day-to-day decisions and in line with the general
instructions of the management board.
❖ Limitations — Similarly, persons empowered to engage and commit the
participant only within certain limits (including financial limits) can not be accepted as
legal representatives for the purposes of the LEAR appointment.
3.1.4 Timing of the LEAR appointment
The process for appointment of the LEAR in the Participant Register can run in parallel
to the validation of the entity, but can only be finalised once the participant (PIC) is
validated.
LEAR appointment is not a condition for the submission of a proposal/tender in the
Funding & Tenders Portal, but its validation must be completed before the the grant,
procurement or contribution agreement can be signed.
3.2 List of documents and information
For the validation of the LEAR appointment, the scanned version of the following
documents must be uploaded by the participant in the Participant Register:
1. LEAR appointment letter* (specifying the LEAR roles & duties and including the
declaration of consent to the Funding & Tenders Portal Terms and
Conditions*), completed, dated and signed by the legal representative and the
LEAR
2. Integral copy of an official, valid proof of identity (ID-card, passport, with
photo and signature) of:
− the legal representative and
− the appointed representative (LEAR)
3. Document(s) proving that the legal representative(s) appointing the LEAR is
empowered as such, which must:
21EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
− clearly indicate the role/function within the organisation as legal
representative
− identify and appoint this person (by indicating their personal data) for
that role.
The originals must be kept on file for checks, reviews, audits or investigations (which
can be required by the EU services at any time). They must not be sent to the Central
Validation Service.
After receiving the above-listed documents (and after the PIC has been validated),
the LEAR appointment will be validated in the Participant Register.
For a detailed description of the LEAR appointment process, see the Online Manual*
and the Funding & Tenders Portal Terms and Conditions*.
Proof of identity
‘Identity documents’ are those issued by national authorities and recognized by
national law as valid proof of identity. Identity documents can not be replaced by any
other means of proof. The EU services cannot waive this requirement under any
circumstances.
Examples of identity documents accepted are ID cards and passports. Driving licenses
are also accepted, as long as they are considered as valid proof of identity under the
applicable national law of the entity concerned.
Identity documents must be valid (not expired) at the time of the LEAR appointment.
An integral copy of the document must be provided (e.g. in most countries both sides
of the identity card must be provided).
Identity documents in which some parts/elements, including the photo, have been
deleted/erased/covered (e.g. with black marker) cannot be accepted.
Specific cases
❖ Service cards and badges issued by the participant — Cannot replace identity
documents (even if the participant is a public body) and therefore cannot be accepted
as proof of identity.
❖ Print-outs from the ID electronic chip — Cannot be accepted either.
Signatures
The LEAR documents must be signed by persons who are legal representatives of the
participant.
The names of both legal representative and LEAR in the LEAR documents must
correspond to those indicated in their official identity documents. LEAR documents
signed with acronyms/nick names/etc that do not correspond to the names indicated
in the identity documents will not be accepted.
Signatures can be either handwritten signatures or qualified electronic signatures
22EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
within the meaning of Article 3(12) of Regulation 910/20148. For the latter, the
Central Validation Service will verify that the signature is based on a valid qualified
certificate and was created by a secure creation device. See here for the list of
accepted trust service providers: eIDAS Dashboard (europa.eu).
Specific cases
❖ Internal requirements (e.g. joint signature of more than one person required to
legally engage the entity, foreseen by law, act of establishment, statutes, internal
rules, etc) — In case of internal requirements, the participant is fully responsible for
ensuring compliance (e.g. through an internal process ensuring that the single
signature on the LEAR documents is made only after all the internal requirements on
joint signature are fulfilled).
❖ Limitations — The Central Validation Service will take into account limitations to
represent the entity only if these limitations are explicitly mentioned in the
documents submitted to prove the empowerment of the legal representative (e.g.
limitation in the excerpts of the company registry).
Documents proving the empowerment of the legal representative
The document(s) proving the empowerment must identify:
− the role/function of legal representative within the entity
− the name and appointment of the person (by indicating their personal data) for
that role.
This can be found in a single document (in case the official appointment also specifies
the powers/tasks related to the appointment) or in several documents combined (e.g.
the official act of appointment and the organisational document, such as act of
establishment, statutes, articles of association, etc, in which the powers/tasks related
to the role are identified).
The documents must be valid (not expired) at the time when the LEAR is appointed.
The documents proving the appointment of the legal representative are those
required/accepted under the applicable national law of the entity concerned. They
may vary depending on the country, the legal form and status:
− law/decree/official act/official gazette in case of public entities
− copy of the treaty in case of international organisations
− decision of assembly, official documents from the council of administration,
executive committee or directors board, excerpts of the company registry in
case of private entities.
A declaration of honour can be accepted only in exceptional, duly justified cases
where none of the above exists.
Concerning the language of such documents and participant's responsibilities
concerning translations, see section 2.2.1.
8 Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on
electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market (OJ L 257,
28.8.2014, p. 73).
23EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Specific cases
❖ Participants who are natural persons — Do not need to prove their
empowerment, but still need to send the supporting documents listed above. The
documents should be signed by the natural person alone. A copy of the ID documents
of the natural person must also be included.
❖ Deputising persons — In case of temporary absence of the legal
representative(s) or their impossibility to sign, other persons empowered to act as
legal representatives (i.e. deputising persons) are accepted as legal representatives
by default. The reason for the temporary absence/impossibility and the legitimation of
the deputy will not be checked by the Central Validation Service and therefore
remains under the full responsibility of the participant (see also above under ‘internal
requirements’).
❖ Ministries — For ministries, Ministers are considered legal representatives by
default and there is no need to provide the legal documents proving their
empowerment.
In addition to the Minister's role, the following roles/functions are considered as legal
representatives by default, without any further verification of the legal documents
proving their empowerment:
− Deputy Minister
− State/General Secretary and their deputies
− Directors of certain specific horizontal sectors/departments/directions, namely
'legal', 'financial','European or international relationships'.
If the official act of appointment is not provided by the ministry, the evidence may be
taken from other appropriate sources (e.g. Official Gazette, the organisational chart
published on the official website of the ministry).
Except if otherwise provided in the applicable rules (law/decree/act governing the
organisation of the ministry), other roles such as ‘Director’/‘Had of Department’/‘Head
of Unit’, etc will be considered as having limited tasks and powers (relating only to
the directorate/department/unit’s policies) and, therefore, not entitled to represent
and engage the ministry as a whole.
For Ministers, the ID document can be exceptionally replaced by a badge or service
card (issued by the ministry). This exception applies only to the person of the
‘Minister’ and cannot be extended to other representatives (such as State Secretaries,
Deputy Ministers or Directors/Head of Departments); these persons are not exempted
from the obligation to provide an ID document.
❖ Public bodies and governmental entities — For public bodies and other
state/governmental entities, including executive services at central/regional/local
level, the highest-ranked person (e.g. Director-General, President, Mayor, etc) will be
recognized as legal representative by default.
If the official act of appointment is not provided by the entity, the evidence may be
taken from other appropriate sources (e.g. Official Gazette, the organisational chart
published on the official website).
❖ International organisations — For international organisations, the highest-
ranked person (e.g. Secretary, Secretary-General) will be recognised as legal
representative by default.
24EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
If the official act of appointment is not provided by the international organisation, the
evidence may also be taken from other appropriate sources (e.g. Official Gazette, the
organisational chart published on the official website of the international
organisation).
❖ Universities and higher education establishments — For universities and
other higher education establishments (e.g. colleges, institutes, etc), the following
roles/functions are recognised as legal representative by default, without any further
verification of their powers:
− Rector and Vice-Rector
− President and Vice-President
− Chancellor and Vice Chancellor.
In case of faculties with their own legal personality (and thus independently
validated), the Dean and Vice-Dean can also act as legal representatives by default.
If the official act of appointment is not provided by the university/higher education
establishment/faculty, the evidence may also be taken from other appropriate
sources (e.g. the organisational chart published on the official internet-site of the
university/faculty).
3.3 LEAR replacement
A LEAR replacement is equivalent to a new LEAR appointment. For the replacement of
an already validated LEAR, participants must submit the same type of documents and
the Central Validation Service will follow the procedure for the validation of LEAR
appointment (see above).
3.4 Ex-post verifications carried out by the EU — Irregularities and/or false
declarations
The EU services reserve the right to carry out — at any moment — checks, reviews,
audits or investigations.
If it is found out that a participant did not respect the obligation to keep the original
documents or committed other irregularities, appropriate measures will be taken.
If in the meantime the participant already received EU grants, procurements, or
contribution agreements, their participation may be terminated and undue amounts
paid will be recovered.
In case of irregularities or false declarations, participants may moreover be fined and
excluded from future EU funding (grants, procurements, prizes, contribution
agreements, etc; see Articles 135 to 146 of the Financial Regulation).
In addition, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) may be informed.
4. Financial capacity assessment
4.1 Financial capacity assessment: Criteria and conditions
In addition to the legal entity validation and LEAR appointment, the Central Validation
Service also assists the EU services with the financial capacity assessment (required
by the Financial Regulation for grants and procurements; not needed for prizes or
contribution agreements).
25EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
The financial capacity assessment must in principle be done for each new
application/tender (— unless the participant already has a valid financial capacity
assessment performed by the Central Validation Service that is not older than 18
months).
Additional conditions depend on the type of procedure (grant or procurement),
participant and grant amount (e.g. no financial capacity assessment is needed for
public bodies in grant procedures, for Member State organisations, international
organisations, persons in receipt of education support, persons most in need and in
receipt of direct support; for low-value grants and low-value procurements).
Additional exemptions are provided in some programmes for specific situations or
types of participants.
Moreover, the financial capacity may be assessed ad hoc if there are justified grounds
to doubt it, like for example:
− indication of weak/insufficient financial capacity from other sources
− involvement in cases of serious administrative errors or fraud
− pending legal procedures or judicial proceedings for serious administrative
errors or fraud
− attachment order or recovery order for an outstanding amount issued by an
EU body on which the payment is significantly overdue
− substantial findings in EU audits within the last 2 years that put in doubt the
financial capacity.
The financial capacity is assessed on the basis of financial indicators that are in
principle the same for all EU programmes.
The financial capacity assessment is normally done during grant preparation/tender
evaluation but may also be done during implementation. If a participants’ financial
capacity must be assessed, they will be contacted by the Central Validation Service
through the Funding & Tenders Portal.
The role of the Central Validation Service is to prepare the financial capacity
assessment (e.g. to collect and to analyse the financial documents). The final decision
on the financial capacity will be taken later, and for each proposal/tender separately
by the EU service in charge.
4.2 Documents and information to provide
4.2.1 General requirements and principles
The financial assessment is in principle based on documents submitted by the
participant as scanned versions via the Participant Register. Originals should be kept
on file for checks, reviews, audits or investigations (which can be required by the EU
services at any time).
As a general rule, financial documents must be provided in their original language(s),
as imposed by the legislation in the participant’s country of registration. For
documents in EU languages, participants may be requested to submit an English free
(unofficial) translation to facilitate the assessment. For documents in non-EU
languages, a free translation in English is always mandatory and needs to be provided
together with the original documents. In case of doubt, a certified/legal translation in
English may be requested. If the participants have original documents in an EU
26EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
language which is not the official language of their country, they can nevertheless
submit them (no need for a translation into the official language of the country).
Some examples of such documents are: dated and signed annual management
reports in English for a company listed on the stock exchange or having international
shareholders or for the purpose of consolidation within a foreign group; dated and
signed extracts from national registers that use English, etc.
The participants assume full responsibility for the content of the documents and the
accuracy of the translations, as well as any information provided by other means (e.g.
by Participant Register message, etc).
In case of false declarations (or intentional manipulation of a translation), the EU
services may:
− withdraw or correct the financial assessment
− terminate on-going grants and procurements (and recover any undue
amounts)
− impose financial penalties or administrative sanctions, including exclusion from
future EU funding (grants, procurements, prizes, contribution agreements, etc;
see Articles 135 to 145 of the Financial Regulation)
− inform the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
4.2.2 List of documents and information
The participants will be asked to submit the following documents and information:
1. Profit and loss account — approved by the management of the entity, clearly
indicating the amounts of turnover from sales of goods and services, operating
income, staff, depreciation, amortization costs, net operating result and
interest expenses. If this information is not indicated in the profit and loss
account or in the explanatory notes it must be provided in the form of a self-
declaration.
2. Balance sheet statement — approved by the management, clearly indicating
the nature and the maturity (i.e. below or above one year) of receivables and
other current assets, grants, provisions and debts. If this information is not
indicated in the balance sheet or in the explanatory notes it must be provided
in the form of a self-declaration.
3. Explanatory notes and/or annexes that form part of the above financial
statements (if available).
4. External audit report or self-declaration
Participants requesting a grant amount of above 750 000 EUR (for action
grants) or above 100 000 EUR (for operating grants) must provide:
− an statutory audit report issued by an approved/certified external
auditor if:
− such a report is available or
− a statutory audit is required under EU or national law
or
27EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
− a declaration on the validity of the accounts* (self-declaration), signed
by the legal representative of the entity, which certifies the validity of
the accounts.
The documents provided must cover the last two closed financial years. The most
recent year must have been closed within the last 18 months.
Exceptions are allowed for:
− start-up companies without closed annual accounts which provide
prospective data (business plan) for one year only
− recently created entities which have closed annual accounts for one year
only. These entities will be assessed based on the documents for the sole
closed financial year
A single financial document containing comparative data of the annual accounts of
both years under assessment will be accepted. The same applies to an external audit
report covering the two financial years.
If some (or all) of the documents have already been provided for the financial years
in question (i.e. uploaded in the Participant Register), the participant does not need
to submit them again.
The audit report must include:
− the clear mandate and scope of the audit
− the responsibilities of the management and the auditor
− the way in which the audit is carried out
− the auditor’s opinion, including a reasonable assurance that the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.
All documents must be provided simultaneously (profit and loss account, balance
sheet, audit report/self-declaration, etc).
No audit report/self-declaration is needed for entities participating in tender
procedures, for natural persons and entities without closed accounts.
Specific cases
❖ Subsidiaries without own financial statements — Subsidiaries which do not
prepare their own financial statements may provide the consolidated accounts and
the audit report/self-declaration of the parent company/group they belong to under
the following conditions:
− the entity is exempt under national law from statutory audits
− only consolidated statements of the parent company/group the entity belongs
to are available
and
− the parent company assumes joint liability for all the debts of the entity (— all
conditions must be fulfilled).
In such cases, participants will be requested to provide additional documents to prove
these conditions.
28EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
❖ Parent companies — Parent companies which are exempt under national law
from publishing individual (i.e. non-consolidated) financial statements will be
requested to provide a dated and signed by the management simplified summary of
their non-consolidated profit and loss statement and balance sheet.
These simplified accounts must respect either the minimum reporting requirements
set out in the national accounting law or Annexes III, IV, V and VI of Directive
2013/349 (for the balance sheet, aggregate information limited to the headings
preceded by letters and roman numerals is sufficient).
If the provided financial information is not sufficiently clear, the Central Validation
Service may contact participants for further clarifications.
❖ Newly established enterprises that have not yet closed accounts — Must
provide estimated financial data (i.e. a business plan or a similar document including
financial projections on current and non-current assets, own capital, current and non-
current liabilities, turnover, operating and financial income and charges).
The financial data must respect either the minimum reporting requirements set out in
the national accounting law or to Annexes III, IV, V and VI of EU Directive 2013/34
(for the balance sheet, aggregate information limited to the headings preceded by
letters and roman numerals is sufficient).
❖ Natural persons engaged in an economic activity who do not prepare financial
statements in relation to their business activities — Are requested to provide:
− the annual income tax declaration containing details on the revenues and
expenses from business activity
− a signed declaration of patrimony, including:
− fixed patrimony (e.g. land, tenement, hereditament, medium/long-term
deposits (more than one year), stock options that cannot be exercised
within one year)
− current patrimony (e.g. available cash, savings, short-term deposits
(maximum of one year), stock-options that can be exercised within one
year)
and
− a signed declaration of debts, which must contain all liabilities (with dates and
figures), broken down in short-term debts (of maximum one year) and
medium/long-term debts (of more than one year).
The Central Validation Service may request additional evidence or information if
needed.
❖ Entities operating cash-based accounting — If the available financial
documents do not contain a profit and loss account and a balance sheet but are
limited to a cash flow statement and/or do not contain sufficient information10,
9 Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on the annual
financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of
undertakings, amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and
repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC (OJ L 182, 29.6.2013, p. 19–76).
10 E.g. missing information on the nature of revenues, expenses or equity, nature and liquidity of
receivables and assets, maturity of debts etc.
29EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
declarations signed by the authorised legal representative of the entity may be
accepted, if they provide:
− information on fixed and current assets: buildings, equipment, inventory, cash,
short/long term11 deposits, short/long term receivables, sort/long term
liabilities, grants and equity/sources of funding, etc
− information on revenues and expenses, such as turnover from sales of goods
and services, operating income, staff expenses depreciation/amortisation
costs, interest expenses, etc.
In addition, it is recommended to provide any available evidence supporting the
declared amounts (e.g. bank statements confirming the available balance at
accounting closure date, etc).
The Central Validation Service may request additional evidence or information if
needed.
❖ Entities covered by a guarantor — Entities that are covered by a full financial
guarantee of another legal entity (i.e. guarantor) may submit the financial data of the
guarantor, provided that it is a full guarantee (i.e. the guarantor has assumed full
joint liability for all debts). Ad-hoc guarantees (covering, for instance, only the
participation in EU projects) cannot be accepted.
Participants that would like to have the financial capacity of their guarantor
assessed, must first contact the service in charge of their application for approval of
the guarantee. In case of approval, the service in charge will request the Central
Validation Service to proceed with the assessment of the guarantor.
4.2.3 Incomplete or contradictory information
The Central Validation Service may use any publicly available information to clarify
questions about (and complement) the data or information provided by the
participants.
Participants may be required to confirm or explain the information submitted or
publicly available, or provide missing information within a reasonable time, if:
− findings do not match their declarations or statements
− the documents submitted are outdated
− the provided information is illegible, incomplete, incorrect, contradictory or
unclear.
If participants do not respond in time, the Central Validation Service has the right
to refuse the assessment (or finalise it on the basis of the information and documents
submitted or publicly available).
If the financial documents do not contain sufficient information regarding the nature
and the maturity of the current assets, provisions and liabilities, and such information
is not provided, the financial assessment will be completed by taking the most
prudent approach, e.g. by considering the maturity of the current assets to be after
one year, and of the provisions and liabilities to be within one year.
11 Short term — maximum of one year; long term — more than one year.
30EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
4.3 Duration of validity and renewal
The financial assessment is valid for 18 months after the closure date of the most
recent assessed accounting period. If during this period the participant applies for
another grant or tender, the financial documents will not be requested again.
However, if there are justified grounds to doubt the financial capacity, a new
assessment may be triggered even before the end of the 18 months.
4.4 Modification of the assessment
In case of disagreement with the assessment, the participant may contact the Central
Validation Service by sending additional justifications via Participant Register
message. The subject of the message should be clearly labelled as related to the
financial assessment (not PIC validation, LEAR assessment or other).
The Central Validation Service will carry out a re-assessment on the basis of the
additional documents.
4.5 Ex-post verifications carried out by the EU — Irregularities and/or false
declarations
The EU services reserve the right to carry out — at any moment — checks, reviews,
audits or investigations.
If it is found out that a participant made false declarations, their status may be
changed.
If in the meantime the participant already received EU grants or procurements, their
participation may be terminated and undue amounts paid will be recovered.
In case of irregularities or false declarations, participants may moreover be fined and
excluded from future EU funding (grants, procurements, prizes, contribution
agreements, etc; see Articles 135 to 145 of the Financial Regulation).
In addition, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) may be informed.
5. Ownership control assessment
5.1 Ownership control assessment: Criteria and conditions
For funding programmes which have restricted calls in which only participants which
are directly or indirectly controlled by EU Member States or by nationals of EU
Member States (or by entities or nationals of specified eligible countries) are eligible,
the Central Validation Service will also handle the ownership control assessment
analysis.
The ownership control assessment must in principle be done for each new grant,
procurement or contribution agreement (— unless the participant already has a valid
ownership control assessment in the system performed by the Central Validation
Service that is not older than 18 months).
Moreover, the ownership control may be assessed ad hoc if there are grounds
justifying a new assessment, like for example:
− indication of third country control from other sources
− indication of ownership control changes after the initial assessment.
31EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
The ownership control assessment will usually look into both ownership and control
elements, in order to assess whether an entity is EU controlled or non-EU controlled.
The focus is however on control (see Guidance on participation in DEP, HE, EDF and
CEF-DIG restricted calls*).
In this context, ‘control’ will be defined as the possibility to exercise decisive influence
directly or indirectly through one or more intermediate entities, ‘de jure’ or ‘de facto’.
The fact that no influence is actually exercised is not relevant, as long as the
possibility exists.
Control will be assessed at the level of the ultimate ownership and control line and all
intermediate layers (in case of indirect control), taking into consideration decision-
making mechanisms, corporate governance, shareholders’/members’ rights, etc.
The assessment is based on the information provided by the participant in the
ownership control declaration* (annexed to their application for EU funding or
procurement procedure) and supporting documents to be provided by the participant
during the ownership control assessment procedure.
The role of the Central Validation Service is limited to identifying instances of
possible non-EU-country/entity control (e.g. to collect and to analyse the supporting
documents). The final decision will be taken later, and for each proposal/tender
separately by the EU service in charge, in accordance with the specific programme
rules.If needed, during grant preparation, the EU service in charge may contact
participants about the outcome of the ownership control assessment.
5.2 Documents and information to provide
5.2.1 General requirements and principles
The ownership control assessment is in principle based on documents submitted by
the participant as scanned versions via the Participant Register. Originals should be
kept on file for checks, reviews, audits or investigations (which can be required by the
EU services at any time).
As a general rule, ownership control documents must be provided in their original
language. For documents in EU languages, participants may be requested to submit
an English free (unofficial) translation to facilitate the assessment. For documents in
non-EU languages, a free translation in English is mandatory and must be provided
together with the original documents. In case of doubt, a certified/legal translation in
English may be requested. If the participants have original documents in an EU
language which is not the official language of their country, they can nevertheless
submit them (no need for a translation into the official language of the country).
The participant assumes full responsibility for the content of the documents and the
accuracy of the translations, as well as the information provided by other means (e.g.
by Participant Register message, etc).
In case of false declarations (or intentional manipulation of a translation), the EU
services may:
− withdraw and correct the assessment
− terminate on-going grants and procurements (and recover any undue
amounts)
− impose financial penalties or administrative sanctions, including exclusion from
future EU funding (grants, procurements, prizes, contribution agreements, etc;
32EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
see Articles 135 to 145 of the Financial Regulation)
− inform the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
5.2.2 List of documents and information
The participants will be asked to submit the following documents and information:
1. Graph visualising the complete ownership structure/chain of control, including
all ownership layers/chain of control until the ultimate owners.
2. Proof of the direct and indirect shareholders/owners and their respective
percentage of interest and voting rights, for instance commercial registry
extracts, articles of association/incorporation documents/memorandum of
association/company’s shareholders/members/partners book/registry extract,
etc with the exact distribution of shares/voting rights, i.e. name of
shareholders/members/partners and their percentage of interest andvoting
rights, as well as information on their place of establishment (in case of legal
entity) or nationality (in case of natural persons).
3. Statutes, articles of association, shareholders’/partnership agreements,
memorandum of understanding among shareholders, investment agreements
between shareholders and other relevant documents regarding the decision-
making procedures within the legal entity and the related rights of the
shareholders/members/partners.
4. Documents establishing/describing the decision-making bodies, rules regarding
election, appointment, nomination, dismissal and tenure of members, and
decision-making procedures (e.g. articles of association, bylaws, reports on
corporate governance, internal corporate governance rules, minutes of board
meetings, etc).
5. For participants that are listed companies, subsidiaries or controlled by a listed
company: report/minutes of the last three shareholders meetings, together
with the attendance list identifying the present/represented shareholders and
their respective votes.
6. Cooperation agreements with customers or suppliers, when they could confer
control over the participant — if expressly requested by the Central Validation
Service.
7. For shareholders/owners that provide financial contributions: supporting
documents (loans, by-laws, etc) that justify the financial contribution;
documents showing the link between the shareholder/owner and the entity
providing the financing — if expressly requested by the Central Validation
Service.
8. Information about any other means, process or links that could ultimately
confer control to a non-EU country or non-EU country entity.
9. Copy of ID card(s) or passport(s) indicating the nationality of the ultimate
owner(s).
The same documents and information must be provided for each intermediate
controlling entity, up to the ultimate owners. The supporting documents must
demonstrate the complete ownership structure, including all layers of ownership and
non-controlling entities.
33EU Funding & Tenders: Rules for LEV, LEAR Appointment and FCA: V5.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Guarantees for non-EU controlled entities (if allowed by the call conditions and
required by the EU service in charge) are not part of the ownership control
assessment and must therefore be submitted directly to the EU service in charge of
the grant/tender, in accordance with the specific programme rules.
5.2.3 Incomplete or contradictory information
The Central Validation Service may use any publicly available information to clarify
questions about (and complement) the data or information provided by the
participants.
Participants may be required to confirm or explain the information submitted or
publicly available, or provide missing information within a reasonable time, if:
− findings do not match their declarations or statements
− the documents submitted are outdated
− the provided information is illegible, incomplete, incorrect, contradictory or
unclear.
If participants do not respond in time, the Central Validation Service has the right
not to finalise the assessment (or finalise it on the basis of the information and
documents submitted or publicly available).
5.3 Duration of validity and renewal
The ownership control assessment is in principle valid for 18 months. If during this
period the participant applies for another grant or tender and confirms that the
ownership control status has not changed, the supporting documents will not be
requested again.
In this case, the participants will still have to submit the ownership control
declaration with the application, but there will be no check by the Central Validation
Service, unless there are justified grounds to doubt the declaration.
5.4 Modification of the assessment
Changes in the ownership control status need to be communicated to the granting
authority/contracting authority, which will trigger a new assessment by the Central
Validation Service, if needed.
For more information on the ownership control assessment procedure, see the
Guidance on participation in DEP, HE, EDF and CEF-DIG restricted calls*.
34EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
HISTORY OF CHANGES
Publication
Version Changes
date
1.0 13.01.2014 ▪ Initial version (as Terms and Conditions of use of the Electronic
Exchange System)
2.0 14.08.2014 ▪ Change in clause 3.1.6
▪ Change of header from Electronic Exchange System to EES
3.0 21.04.2016 ▪ Minor redrafting: Change of title and header (into Participant
Portal Terms and Conditions). Addition of versioning table. Change
of blue colour
▪ Simpler language (regrouping of different user types (individual,
beneficiary, applicant, expert etc.) under common label ’users’)
Addition of PCoCo role.
4.0 17.01.2018 ▪ General revision to improve readability (regrouping the
Commission and other EU services using the EES under common
label ‘EU’).
▪ Changes to include procurement.
5.0 17.07.2019 ▪ Replacement of Participant Portal name with the new Funding &
Tenders Portal name
▪ Minor redrafting: § 1.1 re-definition of the FT Portal; §1.4
additional reference to the user's agreement to the T&C.
▪ Update of some outdated links
6.0 06.10.2020 ▪ Changes to include audit management
7.0 01.02.2024 ▪ Small textual correction concerning the 10 days rule
▪ Changes to include EU indirect management and clauses
recognising the privileges and immunities of international
organisations.
▪
▪
2EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
EU FUNDING & TENDERS PORTAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
1. SUBJECT MATTER AND SCOPE
1.1 The EU Funding & Tenders Portal (‘Portal’) is an electronic portal and exchange
system managed by the European Commission and used by itself and several
other EU services (together ‘EU’), for the management of EU funding/tenders (i.e.
grants, procurements, prizes, contribution agreements, experts, etc).
1.2 It is currently open to:
− users applying for or managing EU grants, tenders and prizes
− entities entering into EU contribution agreements
− external experts and audit firms appointed to work for the EU in the
context of EU funding programmes
and allows them to:
− register (in the Participant Register or Expert Data Base) and view and
edit their data
− create, revise and submit proposals for funding and tenders
− prepare and sign contracts
− manage their projects and contracts (e.g. submit deliverables, reports
and payment requests)
− for experts: perform their tasks inside the system (evaluation,
monitoring, etc)
− for external audit firms: perform their tasks inside the system (audit
management).
1.3 These Terms and Conditions govern the relation between the following parties:
− the European Commission (as owner of the Portal)
and
− users
in relation to access and use of the Portal.
For the avoidance of doubt, it does not cover the terms and conditions related to
the grants, procurements, prizes, contribution agreements or expert contracts that
are managed through the Portal; those are governed by their own legal framework
and contractual arrangements.
1.4 Requesting access to the Portal, accessing the Portal or using the Portal signifies
unconditional acceptance of these Terms and Conditions.
Users will be requested to agree explicitly to the Terms and Conditions on their first
login to the Portal.
For users acting on behalf of organisations, the legal representatives of the
organisations will also be asked to explicitly agree at the moment they appoint their
LEAR/EXAFs (through the ‘declaration of consent’; see below).
3EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Organisations must provide their LEAR/EXAFs, LSIGNs and FSIGNs with a copy of
these Terms and Conditions.
Users are responsible for regularly verifying the applicable Terms and Conditions.
1.5 These Terms and Conditions constitute the entire agreement between the
European Commission and users, as regards the conditions for access and use of
the Portal.
2. ACCESS TO THE PORTAL
2.1 Users
2.1.1 Access to the public parts of the Portal is open to all users.
2.1.2 Access to the Portal electronic exchange system (EES) is open only to persons
with an EU Login account.
2.1.3 Access rights to certain information and functions in the EES are restricted to
users with specific roles (which are in turn linked to their functions within their
organisation or in relation to a particular
proposal/project/grant/contract/agreement).
2.1.4 Organisations can access the EES only via individual users employed by or
representing them.
2.2 Means of access to the EES — EU Login user account
2.2.1 Users must obtain an EU Login account in accordance with the applicable
procedures.
Users who already have an EU Login account must use that account.
2.2.2 Users guarantee that the information provided for registration for the account is
accurate and complete.
The European Commission has — at any time — the right to verify the accuracy
and validity of the information.
If this reveals any inaccuracy or invalidity, the European Commission has the right
to close the account and suspend or refuse access.
2.2.3 The means of access (i.e. the user name and password) are strictly personal and
users are responsible for safeguarding their confidentiality and security, and
ensuring their appropriate use.
Users undertake to take all steps to prevent any unauthorised third party from
gaining knowledge and making use thereof.
Users may not transfer or sell their means of access to third parties.
Users must notify the European Commission immediately (via the IT Helpdesk;
see Funding & Tenders Portal Support menu) of the loss, theft, breach of
confidentiality or any risk of misuse of the means of access.
If the European Commission has any reason to suspect that the confidentiality or
security of the means of access has been breached or that the EES is being
misused, it may — without prior notice — suspend or refuse access.
4EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
2.3 Access rights and roles in EES
2.3.1 For grants, procurements, prizes and contribution agreements: there are various
roles depending on the tasks that need to be done (both at organisation level and
at the level of each grant/procurement/prize/contribution agreement).
Organisation roles
Role Who is this? Duties and system Comments
rights
Legal Entity The person Must keep The LEAR does not
Appointed appointed by an organisation data up assign the PLSIGNs
Representative organisation to to date. and PFSIGNs to a
(LEAR) manage its data in particular
Attributes and
the EES. grant/procurement
revokes the following
/ contribution
roles:
agreement. (This is
− LSIGNs for the
done by the
organisation;
Coordinator
− FSIGNs for the
Contacts (CoCos)
organisation;
or Participant
− AccAds.
Contacts (PaCos)
of that
grant/procurement
/ contribution
agreement.)
Not needed for
prizes.
Account Assists LEAR in their Has the same rights Not needed for
Administrator tasks. as the LEAR, except prizes.
(AccAd) that they cannot
attribute other
account
administrators.
Legal Signatory The person Not needed for
(LSIGN) authorised to sign prizes.
(on behalf of the
organisation) legal
commitments for
grants/
procurements/contri
bution agreements
(i.e. sign grant
agreements/
procurement
contracts and
amendments).
Financial The person Not needed for
Statement authorised to sign prizes.
Signatory (on behalf of the
(FSIGN) organisation)
financial
statements/invoices
for
grants/procurements
5EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
/contribution
agreements
managed through
the EES.
Audit Contact The person Submits information
(AuCo) responsible for all to the EU related to
communications audits.
related to audits
(and their
implementation).
Self-registrant Person who registers Manages the
a new organisation organisation data up
for the first time in until the organisation
the Participant has appointed a LEAR,
Register (see section (normally after the
1.1). organisation has been
validated as a legal
entity — see section
1.1).
Project roles
Role Who is this? Duties and system Comments
rights
Primary The main person Has full For each
coordinator representing the viewing/editing/submi grant/procurement
contact coordinator for a ssion rights. /prize/contribution
(PCoCo) particular agreement, a
Manages information
grant/procurement/ coordinator must
related to the
prize/contribution have one PCoCo.
grant/procurement/pri
agreement (‘main
ze/contribution
contact’).
agreement.
Submits information
to the EU.
Can attribute or
revoke all other roles
for the
grant/procurement/pri
ze/contribution
agreement in their
organisation.
Can attribute or
revoke PaCos of the
other participants in
the
grant/procurement/pri
ze/contribution
agreement.
Coordinator Other persons Has full A coordinator may
Contact (CoCo) representing the viewing/editing/submi have one or more
coordinator for a sison rights. other CoCos.
particular
Manages information
6EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
grant/procurement/ related to the
prize/contribution grant/procurement/pri
agreement (‘contact ze/contribution
person’). agreeement.
Submits information
to the EU.
Can attribute or
revoke all other roles
for the
grant/procurement/pri
ze/contribution
agreement in their
organisation.
Can attribute or
revoke PaCos of the
other participants in
the
grant/procurement/pri
ze/contribution
agreement.
Participant Person representing Has full viewing A organisation may
Contact (PaCo) a participant rights. have one or more
organisation (but PaCos.
Manages information
not the coordinator)
related to the
for a particular
participation in the
grant/procurement/
grant/procurement/pri
prize/contribution
ze/contribution
agreement.
agreement.
Submits information
to the coordinator.
Submits information
directly to the EU (if
requested).
Can attribute or
revoke all other roles
for the
grant/procurement/pri
ze/contribution
agreement, within
their organisation.
Project Legal Person authorised to Same rights as for PLSIGNs must be
Signatory sign legal CoCos and PaCos. nominated by the
(PLSIGN) commitments for a CoCo or PaCo from
particular the list of LSIGNs
grant/procurement/ for their
contribution organisation (see
agreement (i.e. sign above).
the grant
An organisation
agreement/
may have one or
procurement
more PLSIGNs.
contract/contribution
agreement and Not needed for
amendments). prizes.
Project Person authorised to Same rights as for PFSIGNs must be
7EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Financial sign financial CoCos and PaCos. nominated by the
Statement statements/invoices CoCo or PaCo from
Signatory for a particular the list of FSIGNs
(PFSIGN) grant/procurement/ for their
contribution organisation (see
agreement. above).
An organisation
may have one or
more PFSIGNs.
Not needed for
prizes.
Task Manager Person who can Completes and saves
(TaMa) perform various web forms.
actions for managing
Uploads documents
a particular
about their
grant/procurement/
organisation’s
prize/contribution
participation.
agreement.
Cannot submit
information to the
coordinator or the EU.
Cannot attribute or
revoke any roles.
Team Member Person who has Cannot attribute or
(TeMe) read-only rights for revoke any roles.
the management of
a particular
grant/procurement/
prize/contribution
agreement.
2.3.2 For experts: there are only two roles, i.e. that of expert and expert assistant (EA).
Expert roles
Role Who is this? Duties and system Comments
rights
Expert The expert. Must keep their expert
profile data up to date.
Attributes and revokes
the following roles:
− EA.
Signs expert contracts;
submits reports and
signs and submits cost
claims
Expert Assists expert on Encodes certain
Assistant (EA) administrative tasks. administrative data on
behalf of the expert
(cannot submit on
behalf).Cannot attribute
8EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
other assistants.
2.3.3 For external audit firms: there are also only two roles, ie that of external audit firm
(EXAF) and external audit firm local auditor (EXAL).
External audit firm roles
Role Who is this? Duties and system Comments
rights
External audit One (or more) main Attributes and revokes An audit firm
firm (EXAF) contact persons EXAF roles. may have
appointed by the several EXAFs.
Have full viewing/editing/
external audit firm
submission rights on all
to manage its audit
audit assignments.
assignments in the
EES. Responsible for the
quality control of the
documents to be
produced in the context
of the assignments.
Attributes and revokes
EXAL roles.
External Audit Auditor tasked with Has full viewing/editing An audit firm
Firm Local individual rights, but cannot submit will have
Auditor (EXAL) assignments for the documents to the EU. several EXALs.
audit firm. Can communicate
directly with the auditee
via the Portal.
2.4 LEAR appointment
2.4.1 Organisations using the EES for transactions requiring electronic signatures are
required to appoint a LEAR.
2.4.2 Individuals (i.e. beneficiaries that are natural persons) will automatically have the
role of LEAR (no appointment needed); but they will have to provide the
supporting documents. Organisations can appoint only one LEAR — who can be
replaced if necessary, following the same appointment process.
2.4.3 Organisations warrant that the person appointed as LEAR is duly authorised to
represent them in relation to all LEAR responsibilities.
Organisations are responsible for verifying regularly the scope of the LEAR
responsibilities and to ensure that the LEAR remains at all times duly authorised
to represent them in relation to these responsibilities.
2.4.4 Supporting documents must be provided directly in the system.
2.4.5 Signed originals must be kept on file for controls (which may take place at any
moment and independently of any ongoing grants, procurements, prizes,
contribution agreements or expert contracts).
9EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
Failure to comply with this requirement may lead to the closure of the EU Login
account and suspension and refusal of access (and possibly termination of ongoing
grants, procurements, prizes, contribution agreements and expert contracts).
2.5 Appointment of signatories in the EES — (P)LSIGNs and (P)FSIGNs
2.5.1 The LEAR must appoint one or more LSIGNs and FSIGNs for the organisation.
2.5.2 The LEAR and its organisation warrant that the persons appointed as LSIGNs or
FSIGNs are duly authorised to represent the organisation in relation to all LSIGN
or FSIGN responsibilities.
The LEAR and its organisation are responsible for verifying regularly the scope of
the LSIGN and FSIGN responsibilities and to ensure that the LSIGNs and FSIGNs
remain at all times duly authorised to represent the organisation in relation to
these responsibilities.
2.5.3 The CoCo or PaCo must appoint the PLSIGNs and PFSIGNs for individual grants
procurements and contribution agreements from the list of LSIGNs and FSIGNs for
their organisation.
2.6 Data updates on the EES roles
2.6.1 The LEAR is responsible for keeping data related to the organisation roles up-to-
date.
2.6.2 The CoCo/PaCo are responsible for keeping data related to the project roles up-to-
date.
2.7 Deactivation of old e-mail addresses/accounts
2.7.1 The LEAR has the ultimate responsibility for overseeing that old e-mail
addresses/user accounts are deactivated and removed from the organisation- and
project roles.
2.8 General obligation to channel information to the right addressees
2.8.1 If made aware of misled communications, the LEAR has the obligation to re-direct
them and ensure proper follow-up and correction for the future.
3. USING THE PORTAL
3.1 General
3.1.1 Users warrant that the Portal is used in accordance with these Terms and
Conditions, applicable laws, rules and regulations and, in general, in a responsible
manner, and only for professional purposes and without breach of the rights of
third parties.
3.1.2 Users are not permitted to make changes to the Portal.
3.1.3 Users may not:
(a) upload, send or disseminate data containing viruses, worms, spyware,
malware or other similar malicious programs
(b) carry out calculations, operations or transactions that may interrupt,
destroy or restrict the functionality of the operation of the Portal or any
program, computer or means of telecommunications or
10EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
(c) submit information or materials that infringe third party rights, are
libellous, obscene, threatening or otherwise unlawful.
3.1.4 Users are fully and unconditionally responsible for any use of the Portal (including
misuse of their means of access), and for any detrimental consequences that may
arise directly or indirectly therefrom.
3.1.5 Organisations acknowledge and accept that they are responsible for the actions
and omissions of persons employed by or representing them, acting as users of
the Portal.
3.1.6 Users are liable for — and will indemnify and hold harmless the European
Commission against — any damage that results from:
− changes made to the Portal or
− use of the Portal in a manner that does not correspond with these Terms and
Conditions.
3.2 Required hardware, software and services
3.2.1 Users acknowledge and agree that they are responsible for the choice, purchase
and operation of hardware, software and telecommunication services required to
connect with and to use the Portal.
Such hardware, software and telecommunication services must meet the
minimum requirements, as specified on the Portal (if any).
Users are responsible for the installation and costs of purchasing and licensing
such hardware, software or telecommunication services.
3.2.2 The European Commission is not liable for hardware, software, products and
services of third parties (such as telecommunication equipment, internet
connections, operating systems and internet browsers).
3.3 Electronic notifications and signatures in the EES
3.3.1 Users acknowledge and accept that under these Terms and Conditions and in line
with the EU Financial Regulation1:
(a) data sent or received through the EES enjoys legal presumption of the
integrity of the data and the accuracy of the date and time of sending or
receiving (as indicated by the EES logs)
(b) a document sent or notified through the EES is considered as equivalent
to a paper document, is admissible as evidence in legal proceedings, is
deemed original and enjoys legal presumption of its authenticity and
integrity, provided it does not contain any dynamic features capable of
automatically changing it
(c) electronic signatures made by users through the EES have the
equivalent legal effect of handwritten signatures.
1 See Regulation (EU, Euratom) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18
July 2018 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 193,
30.7.2018, p. 1).
11EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
3.3.2 Users acknowledge and accept that:
(a) any communication or document sent or notified using any type of
electronic signature through the EES shall be considered as equivalent
to a paper document with a handwritten signature and shall be
admissible as evidence in legal proceedings and constitute sufficient
evidence in legal proceedings
(b) any declaration, contract (or amendment) signed using any type of
electronic signature through the EES shall be considered as equivalent
to a paper declaration/contract with a handwritten signature and shall
be admissible as evidence in legal proceedings and constitute sufficient
evidence in legal proceedings
(c) they cannot dispute:
(i) the existence or validity of any communication, document,
declaration or contract signed using any type of electronic
signature through the EES or
(ii) the admissibility of any communication, document, declaration or
contract submitted or signed through the EES as evidence in legal
proceedings, solely on the basis that such communication,
document, declaration or contract was submitted electronically
through the EES or signed with an electronic signature.
3.3.3 Users acknowledge and accept that:
(a) communications in the EES are generally considered to have been made
when they are sent by the sending party (i.e. on the date and time they
are sent through the EES, as indicated by the time logs)
(b) where formal notifications are required, these are considered to have
been made when they are received by the receiving party (i.e. on the
date and time they are accessed in the EES by the receiving party, as
indicated by the time logs); formal notifications that have not been
accessed within 10 calendar days after sending are considered to have
been accessed.
3.3.4 The European Commission registers access and use of the EES.
This access and use log provides evidence that access and use has been made of
EES, unless users can prove the contrary.
3.3.5 Electronic messages, connections, operations on the network and transactions
between the EU and the users shall be proven using the logs and transaction files
kept electronically by the European Commission.
Users accept the evidential value of this data.
This does not prevent the parties from providing other proof, using permitted
legal methods (such as proof on paper).
3.4 Intellectual property rights
3.4.1 The intellectual and industrial property rights and know-how associated with the
Portal belong exclusively to the European Commission and its licensors.
Only the European Commission has the right to correct errors.
12EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
3.4.2 The European Commission grants users a non-transferable, limited, non-exclusive
licence to use the Portal for their own professional purposes (unless access is
suspended or refused).
Without prejudice to the rights of users under applicable legislation relating to the
protection of computer programs (which cannot be contractually denied), users
may not in any way:
(a) modify, translate or adapt the Portal
(b) decompile or disassemble the Portal
(c) copy the Portal (or parts of it)
(d) pass on, dispose of, grant as a sub-licence, lease, lend or distribute the
Portal or Portal documentation to third parties
(e) create any product or service substantially similar to the Portal or
(f) copy any ideas, characteristics or functions of the Portal.
3.5 Portal availability
3.5.1 The European Commission will to the best of its abilities take reasonable care to
ensure the availability of the Portal.
The European Commission does not guarantee that the Portal will be available
without interruption or degradation of service.
In case of technical problems affecting the submission of application documents,
the European Commission reserves the right to cancel calls without entitlement to
compensation.
3.6 Suspension and refusal of access
3.6.1 Users acknowledge that the European Commission may refuse access to a user
logging in, if a session is already open on another computer where another user is
using the same means of access (i.e. the same EU Login account name and
password).
3.6.2 Users acknowledge and accept that the European Commission may suspend or
refuse access to the Portal:
(a) in case of suspected or actual breach of these Terms and Conditions
(b) if the information provided for the registration for an EU Login account is
inaccurate or invalid (clause 2.2.2)
(c) if the European Commission has any reason to suspect that the
confidentiality or security of the means of access (i.e. EU Login account
name and password) have been breached or compromised or that the
Portal is being misused (clause 2.2.3)
(d) in case of fraudulent practices
(e) if the IT systems of the European Commission are being attacked
(f) if required under applicable laws or regulations
(g) to avoid any detrimental impact for the European Commission or a user
13EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
(h) for preventive, corrective or routine maintenance and
(i) in any other situation where the European Commission considers that
suspension or refusal of access is reasonably required or desirable.
3.6.3 The European Commission is not liable for any damage suffered in connection with
the suspension or refusal of access.
4. MISCELLANEOUS
4.1 Personal data
4.1.1 Personal data submitted or otherwise collected through the Portal is subject to the
privacy statements available on the Portal Legal Notice page.
4.2 Waiving of rights
4.2.1 The rights and remedies of a party under these Terms and Conditions may be
waived only by express written notice to the other party.
4.2.2 Any waiver shall apply only in the specific instance, and for the purpose for which
it is given.
4.3 Liability and damages
4.3.1 Users may be held liable for misuse of the Portal under the conditions set out in
clause 3.1.6.
4.3.2 In addition to clauses 3.2.2 and 3.6.3 and to the maximum extent permitted by
the applicable law (see clause 4.7.2), neither the European Commission nor any
other EU service shall be liable for any direct or indirect damage of any kind
(including disruption of business, third party claims and loss of profits, anticipated
savings, or goodwill), except in the event of wilful misconduct.
To the maximum extent permitted by the applicable law, neither the European
Commission nor any other EU service can be held liable for gross negligence.
Neither the European Commission nor any other EU service are responsible or
liable for any damage in case of force majeure, external cause or any other events
which are not under their reasonable control.
4.4 Interpretation
4.4.1 These Terms and Conditions have been drawn up in English and its provisions will
be interpreted and construed in accordance with applicable law (see clause 4.6)
and their generally accepted meanings in the English language.
Any translation of these Terms and Conditions is for the convenience of the
parties only, and shall not be binding towards any party.
In the event of any inconsistency between the English original and its translation,
the provisions of the English version shall prevail.
4.4.2 For participants that are international organisations, nothing in these Terms and
Conditions shall constitute, be deemed or construed as a waiver or modification of
their privileges or immunities, as accorded by their constituent documents or
international law.
14EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
4.4.3 International organisations that have also concluded a financial framework
partnership agreement with the EU, may moreover rely on the provisions set out
in that framework agreement— provided they do not call into question the lawful
access and use of the Portal in line with the intended purposes set out in the
Terms and Conditions.
4.4.4 If a provision of these Terms and Conditions is or becomes invalid, illegal or
unenforceable, it shall (if possible and insofar as it is invalid, illegal or
unenforceable) be replaced by a valid, legal and enforceable clause that reflects
the initial intentions as closely as possible.
If the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision cannot be validly replaced, no
effect is to be given to the clause and it shall be deemed not to be included in
these Terms and Conditions, without affecting or invalidating the remaining
provisions of these Terms and Conditions.
4.5 Changes
4.5.1 The European Commission may, at any time, vary, add to or delete any provision
of these Terms and Conditions.
4.5.2 Users acknowledge and agree that such new terms and conditions enter into force
with their publication on the Portal.
4.5.3 In accordance with clause 1.4, any access to or use of the Portal shall constitute
unconditional acceptance of these Terms and Conditions (in the then-current
version).
4.5.4 Accordingly, users acknowledge and agree that any modification to the Terms and
Conditions shall be deemed accepted by them as from the first time they access
or use the Portal after the date of entry into force of the new Terms and
Conditions.
4.6 Termination
4.6.1 These Terms and Conditions shall be deemed terminated vis-à-vis a user in case:
− the European Commission no longer makes available the Portal or
− of refusal of access pursuant to clause 3.6.
4.6.2 Those clauses that by their nature are expressly or implicitly intended to survive
the termination or expiry of these Terms and Conditions shall so survive, including
but not limited to clauses 2.4.3, 3.3, 3.5, 4.3, 4.4 and 4.7.
4.7 Applicable law and dispute settlement
4.7.1 For issues closely linked to a grant, procurement, prize, contribution agreement or
expert contract managed through the Portal, the applicable law and dispute
settlement forum are that of the legal framework/contractual arrangement
relating to the grant, procurement, prize, contribution agreement or expert
contract.
4.7.2 For issues relating to these Terms and Conditions, the Portal and access or use of
its electronic exchange system (EES), the applicable law shall be EU law,
supplemented if necessary by the law of Belgium.
15EU Funding & Tenders Portal: Terms and Conditions: 7.0 – 01.02.2024
BG CS DA DE EL EN ES ET FI FR GA HR HU IT LT LV MT NL PL PT RO SK SL SV
For such issues, the General Court — or on appeal the Court of Justice of the
European Union — shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any disputes, if they
cannot be settled amicably.
For participants that are international organisations, the applicable law shall be
the general principles governing the law of international organisations and the
general rules of international law. For disputes with such participants, the
Permanent Court of Arbitration shall have jurisdiction in accordance with the Rules
for Arbitration published on the Portal, if they cannot be settled amicably. There
will be no possibility for interim measures or pre-award relief.
16