Joint Transnational Call for Investigator-Initiated Clinical Studies
(JTC IICS) – 2025
“Fostering Pragmatic Comparative-Effectiveness Trials in Non-communicable
Diseases” (EffecTrial)
Call Text
DEADLINES
January 28th, 2025 (16:00 CET) - SUBMISSION OF PRE-PROPOSALS
June 17th, 2025 (16:00 CEST) - SUBMISSION OF INVITED FULL PROPOSALS
Link to the electronic proposal submission:
https://ptoutline.eu/app/EffecTrial
The submission system will be open by November 28th, 2024
For further information, please visit us on the website: https://era4health.eu/
or contact the Joint Call Secretariat (JCS):
Institute of Health Carlos III (ISCIII)
Astrid Valencia Quiñónez / Sara García-Rodríguez
+34 918 222 227 / +34 918 222 868
EffecTrial@isciii.es
1History of modifications :
27/11/2024 :
- Updated information for HRB’s eligibility criteria regarding the Maximum/ Minimum
funding per grant awarded to a clinical study partner.
- Updated information for FR-MOH’s eligibility criteria (Annex I).
- Inclusion of the link to the electronic proposal submission (PT-Outline).
- Removal of the mention «Pending for official confirmation» for NCBR Funding
Organisation.
03/12/2024:
- Removal of the mention «Pending for official confirmation» for IT-MOH Funding
Organisation.
11/12/2024:
- Updated information for FR-MOH’s eligibility criteria (Annex I).
2Content
Definitions ................................................................................................................................ 5
Aim and ambition of ERA4Health ............................................................................................. 7
Rationale .................................................................................................................................. 7
Aim of the call........................................................................................................................... 8
Expected Impact ..................................................................................................................... 11
General conditions for application ......................................................................................... 11
Participating countries and respective funding organisations ............................................... 12
Application ............................................................................................................................. 13
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA .......................................................................................................... 13
Size of the consortium ................................................................................................................ 13
Financial and legal modalities ..................................................................................................... 15
Submission of joint proposals ............................................................................................ 15
Further information ........................................................................................................... 17
Evaluation and decision .......................................................................................................... 17
Eligibility check and evaluation procedure ........................................................................ 17
Formal check and evaluation of pre-proposal ............................................................................ 17
Formal check and evaluation of full proposals ........................................................................... 17
Evaluation Criteria.............................................................................................................. 18
Proposals not relevant to the call topic and objectives (out of the scope) will be declared
ineligible and will not be funded and forwarded to full proposal stage independently of their
scientific quality. ......................................................................................................................... 18
Pre-proposal ............................................................................................................................... 18
Full proposal ............................................................................................................................... 19
Scoring system ................................................................................................................... 21
Rebuttal stage .................................................................................................................... 21
Interview of the sponsor .................................................................................................... 21
PRP meeting ....................................................................................................................... 22
Ethical clearance ................................................................................................................ 22
Clinical study selection and reconfiguration process ........................................................ 22
Redress procedure ................................................................................................................. 23
Procedure ........................................................................................................................... 24
Responsibilities, Reporting requirements and Dissemination ................................................ 24
Consortium Agreement ..................................................................................................... 24
Open Science ...................................................................................................................... 25
Monitoring ......................................................................................................................... 25
3Communication .................................................................................................................. 26
Confidentiality ........................................................................................................................ 27
General Data Protection Regulation ....................................................................................... 27
4Definitions
Types of clinical studies:
Clinical study refers to any systematic prospective or retrospective collection and analysis of health
data obtained from individual patients or healthy persons to address scientific questions related to
the understanding, prevention, diagnosis, monitoring or treatment of a disease, mental illness, or
physical condition. It may include investigation on medicinal products, clinical investigation and
clinical evaluation on medical devices, performance studies and performance evaluation on in vitro
diagnostic medical devices (Source: Information on clinical studies (HE): V4.1 –13.05.2022).
Clinical trial is any research study that prospectively assigns human participants or groups of humans
to one or more health-related interventions to evaluate the effects on health outcomes.
Interventions include but are not restricted to drugs, cells and other biological products, surgical
procedures, radiologic procedures, devices, behavioral treatments, process-of-care changes,
preventive care, etc. Clinical trials may also be referred to as interventional trials.
Comparative effectiveness research is defined as the generation and synthesis of high-quality
evidence that compares the benefits and harms of alternative methods to prevent, diagnose, treat
and monitor a clinical condition or to improve the delivery of care. These include comparisons of
interventions, such as approved therapies, different surgical protocols or lifestyle changes and
comparisons between these different interventions. Those studies are patient-centered and
outcome-based trials will compare benefits and risks of therapeutic interventions to inform clinical
and/or policy decision making.
Implementation clinical studies are scientific studies of methods to promote the uptake of research
findings into routine healthcare.
Interventional clinical studies, also called experimental studies, are those where the researcher
intervenes at some point throughout the study. These evaluate the effects of the interventions on
biomedical or health-related outcomes, and include early phase (up to phase II), phase II-phase III,
and phase IV. The most common and strongest interventional study design is a randomized
controlled trial.
Investigator-Initiated Clinical Study (IICS), is a clinical study conceived, initiated, conducted and
sponsored under the full responsibility of a non-industrial body as sponsor, such as an individual
investigator, research performing institution, university, collaborative group, cooperative group or
association.
Low intervention clinical trial means a clinical trial on medicinal product (or other types of medical
interventions) which fulfils all of the following conditions: (a) the investigational medicinal products,
excluding placebos, are authorised; (b) according to the protocol of the clinical trial, (i)the
investigational medicinal products are used in accordance with the terms of the marketing
authorisation; or (ii) the use of the investigational medicinal products or medical interventions are
evidence-based and supported by published scientific evidence on the safety and efficacy of those
investigational medicinal products in any of the Member States concerned; and (c) the additional
diagnostic or monitoring procedures do not pose more than minimal additional risk or burden to the
safety of the subjects compared to normal clinical practice in any Member State concerned (Source:
Clinical Trial Regulation, EU 536/2014 )
5Non-interventional study/observational clinical study is a type of study in which individuals are
observed, or certain outcomes are measured. No attempt is made to affect the outcome (for
example, no treatment is given) (US National Institutes of Health -NIH- definition). Observational
studies include case reports and case series, ecological studies, cross-sectional studies, case-control
studies and cohort studies.
Pilot studies are small-scale studies conducted in preparation for a larger investigation.
Pragmatic trials are designed to evaluate the effectiveness of interventions in real-life routine
practice conditions. Clinical trials that are considered “pragmatic” are designed to study a health
intervention in a real-world setting that is similar or identical to the one in which the intervention
will be implemented.
Randomised Controlled Trial: The most common and strongest interventional study design is a
randomized controlled trial. In a clinical trial, participants receive specific interventions according to
the research plan or protocol created by the investigators. These interventions may be medical
products, such as drugs or devices; cell or other biological products; procedures; preventive care; or
changes to participants' behavior, such as diet. Clinical trials may compare a new medical approach
to a standard one that is already available, to a placebo that contains no active ingredients, or to no
intervention.
Roles in the consortium and other definitions:
Associated partner is a recruitment site who has a collaboration agreement or a subcontract with
one of the partners of the IICS consortium.
Coordinating investigator: the person who takes primary responsibility for the design conduct and
reporting of the study who will be responsible for the overall project coordination.
Cross-cutting activities: activities that have to be managed transnationally because they go beyond
the national boundaries, such as financing of intervention/study drug, trial authorization, data
collection and management, statistical analysis, safety, study design and protocol development and
the overall management activities.
Principal Investigator (PI): each partner organisation is represented by a Principal Investigator who
is responsible leader of a team of investigators who conduct a clinical study at a clinical trial site.
Recruitment/recruiting site – facility where potential participants/patients are identified for and
enrolled in clinical trials.
Responsible Research and Innovation (RRI) - is the process of engaging with the social, political,
environmental or ethical complexities of research and innovation. Further information can be found
in ERA4Health's Guidelines for RRI.
Service provider: an external entity responsible of cross-cutting activities who will provide all
recruitment sites with specific expertise in these activities.
Sponsor: Sponsor will mean the non-for-profit institution or organisation which takes responsibility
for the initiation, the management and setting up the financing of the clinical trial. For IICS, usually
the sponsor is the institution that host the coordinating investigator.
6Aim and ambition of ERA4Health
The Partnership “Fostering a European Research Area for Health” (ERA4Health) aims at establishing
a flexible and effective coordination between funding organisations in the European Research Area
(ERA) for Health and Well-being. This Partnership brings the opportunity to increase European
transnational collaborative research funding by creating a funding body for joint programming in
priority areas addressing European Public Health needs.
The general objective of ERA4Health is to reach an effective joint approach and generate knowledge
and products (e.g. preventive guidelines, medical protocols) in the identified research areas as
outlined in ERA4Health Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA)1. To achieve this, a
comprehensive network will be created which aims at strengthening and expanding the existing
conducive eco-system.
In this light, ERA4Health gathers public funders of health research in the European Research Area
including the European Commission that jointly identify and implement a common funding strategy
in priority areas to advance health research and develop innovation.
ERA4Health has 4 specific objectives:
• SO1. Support relevant medical research including clinical fields and intervention areas
(prevention, diagnosis, treatment),
• SO2. Improve the utilisation of existing health technologies in clinical practice,
• SO3. Build capacity, in particular in conducting IICS at European scale,
• SO4. Implement and advance the practice of Responsible Research and Innovation (RRI)
across the breadth of the programme.
Rationale
Investigator-Initiated Clinical Studies (IICS), also referred to as non-commercial, academic or
independent clinical studies, are studies initiated by investigators that address important research
questions that would not normally offer a strong commercial interest to private industry. They are
usually driven by scientific opportunities and pressing public health needs with high societal value.
IICS are led by investigators, who conceive the research, develop the protocol and are usually
supported by public funding.
Whereas they represent almost half of clinical research activities in Europe, IICS are mostly conducted
in a single country. Therefore, there is a specific need for supporting these multi-country IICS, given
the added value that they can provide compared to single country ones.
Taking advantage of Europe’s half-billion population size, its medical expertise, high quality
healthcare systems, harmonised regulatory framework and scientific potential, enhanced
multinational cooperation in clinical studies would boost clinical research in Europe. Additionally,
1https://era4health.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/ec_rtd_he-partnerships-era-for-health-1.pdf
7European studies allow rapid patient recruitment and spread best practices, thus enhancing Europe
competitiveness and healthcare equity for the benefit of patients and of healthcare systems.
Such IICS require appropriate public or charity funding, and a multinational trial management
capacity as the European legislation requires a sponsor for multi-country trials in Europe. For IICS,
academic institutions (usually the Institution of the principal investigator) act as the sponsor
(academic-sponsored trials).
Comparative-effectiveness studies are a particularly important type of IICS.
In clinical practice, many treatments have not been thoroughly evaluated, making it unclear whether
a patient with a particular condition would benefit from a particular treatment or whether another
treatment would be more effective. In comparative-effectiveness studies, the benefits and side-
effects of different methods to prevent, diagnose, treat and/or monitor a clinical condition are
compared.
A key outcome of these studies is to provide stakeholders (patients, caregivers, providers, payers,
policy makers) with useful knowledge to make an informed decision between two or more diagnostic
tests, treatments, treatment combinations, interventions, care delivery systems or policies.
In addition, comparative effectiveness studies can be conducted in a very pragmatic way. Pragmatic
clinical studies enable investigation of whether a treatment works in the clinical setting, preferably
on all types of relevant patients. In a pragmatic clinical study, only the necessary data will be
collected, resulting in lower cost even with a high number of patients.
Comparative effectiveness studies are low intervention studies as they will compare approved
interventions that are already being used in everyday clinical practice and in accordance with the
marketing authorization. These studies should pose no more than a minimal additional safety risk or
burden to participants compared to usual clinical practice.
Aim of the call
The aims of the call are:
- to support randomised, interventional and pragmatic comparative-effectiveness multi-
country Investigator-Initiated Clinical Studies (IICS).
- to encourage and enable transnational collaboration between clinical/public health
research teams (from hospital/ public health, healthcare settings and other healthcare
organisations) that conduct comparative-effectiveness multi-country IICS.
Proposals should address all the 4 following points :
1) Be a pragmatic comparative effectiveness trial, designed as randomised interventional
trial.
2) Compare the use of currently approved healthcare interventions either to each other or to
the current standard of care.
83) They shall consider healthcare interventions which could include but would not be limited
to: diagnostic, screening, prevention and treatment interventions. The interventions can be
pharmacological as well as non-pharmacological procedures like nutrition and/or lifestyle
interventions, surgery, prognosis methods, use of medical devices, eHealth and digital
interventions and other health interventions. 2
4) These interventions shall have high public relevance only in the fields of these specific
diseases or conditions (that are of equal importance):
o Cardiovascular diseases
o Metabolic disorders
o Nutrition and lifestyle-related diseases
o Non-communicable respiratory diseases
The focus of the multi-country Investigator-Initiated Clinical Studies should primarily address at least
one of the abovementioned principal diseases/conditions, although the proposals can also address
several of the mentioned diseases/conditions and/or other related comorbidities.
Beyond the research topics, the following requirements and recommendations should be considered,
including approaches to Responsible Research and Innovation (RRI) (see RRI guidelines provided in
the Guidelines for applicants document).
Requirements:
• Proposals must clearly demonstrate the potential health and/or economic impact(s) as well
as the added value of transnational clinical collaboration.
• Proposals must include an early involvement of ‘end users’ (e.g. patients, care providers,
healthcare professionals, etc.) in the design of the study (integrating patient valued
outcomes) and in the research process. This is to ensure acceptability of the healthcare
intervention and utility of the studies’ knowledge for healthcare decision making. Patient
organisations or other end-users can participate as partners (if eligible for funding by a
national/regional funding organisation), as collaborators (participation with own budget) or
as part of an advisory board.
• Special consideration must be given to fulfilling all ethical requirements (See ethical
requirements and clearance section in the call documents, including reference to Reference
to EU Regulation 2021/695 and ethical self-assessment).
• The consortia shall ensure the management of research data according to FAIR data
principles (Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability and Reuse) and in compliance with the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
• The proposed research shall consider sex and gender aspects, whenever applicable.
• Partners in the consortia, especially the coordinating PI, should have a proven track record
in delivery of clinical trials to ensure the feasibility of the clinical trial.
2 Please note that proposals that include a partner applying for funding from BMBF/DLR (Germany) are only eligible if the
comparison includes the use of at least one nutritional and/or lifestyle intervention. The comparison of e.g. two
pharmacological interventions would not be eligible in this case and would lead to an immediate exclusion of this proposal
without further review. Please note that dietary supplements in pharmacological doses are not considered a
nutritional intervention.
9• The consortia should consider the gender balance in their composition and to balance the
responsibilities between them.
• Additionally, proposals should take into account the diversity of health systems in different
regions of Europe to allow large-scale uptake.
• The consortia are requested to ensure inclusiveness aspects in patient recruitment
(minorities, ethnical aspects…), to include underrepresented and vulnerable populations
that could be specifically relevant in a certain medical area and consider issues of particular
relevance for the target population, for example, gender specificities, age, multimorbidity,
complex chronic conditions, polypharmacy, substance misuse, vaccine efficacy, compliance,
and diseases with high societal burden.
• For the chosen population, clinical and safety parameters, as well as health and socio-
economic outcomes (e.g. quality of life, patient mortality, (co)morbidity, costs, and
performance of the health system) should be assessed. Consider using new instruments and
methods for determining the burden of disease and for evaluating the effects of the
interventions. Low-cost innovations should also be considered.
Recommendations:
• Additionally, proposals are encouraged to show how the outcomes of the trial could
generate further impact in the future (e.g. through a socioeconomic evaluation and to
demonstrate how the evidence shown by the comparative-effectiveness clinical trial could
be very valuable for future Health Technology Assessments (HTA).
• The consortia are encouraged to take into consideration existing multinational networks,
platforms or existing cohorts in the respective medical field that they have access to ensure
the feasibility of the trial.
• Applicants could make use of existing biobanks, existing cohorts, information from previous
observational studies, systematic reviews, and/or metadata repositories, although their
clinical studies should not be based only on this type of approaches.
Out of scope:
• Studies in other medical areas different from the ones mentioned above (cardiovascular
diseases, metabolic disorders, nutrition and lifestyle-related diseases and non-
communicable respiratory diseases).
• Particularly, those clinical trials that are focused on rare diseases, cancer and/or infectious
diseases are out of the scope of this call, even if these diseases are studied with one of the
eligible diseases/conditions
• Proposals focused on observational studies, cohort studies, translational/clinical approval
studies, creation of large databases, systematic reviews and meta-analysis.
• Basic biomedical research
• Development of a new healthcare intervention
• Phase I and phase II studies
• Placebo randomized controlled trials
10Expected Impact
Pragmatic practice-oriented comparative-effectiveness publicly funded clinical studies can provide
answers to highly relevant health research questions, both in terms of clinical effectiveness and cost-
effectiveness of interventions, which are less likely to be answered by trials funded by the
pharmaceutical and other health industry. In case of comparison with the current standard of care,
the impact on the public policies and the healthcare systems will be enhanced.
These types of pragmatic trials are a key element for Health Technology Assessments (HTA) and to
assist decision-makers from health ministries and other public institutions, to promote value-based
health care, evidence-based health policies and prioritize health interventions that have a substantial
public health impact.
Through the early involvement of patients or patient representatives in the clinical studies the
patient’s need in those medical areas will be adequately addressed and will assure better
acceptability and adherence to the healthcare interventions. This will further contribute to patient-
centred decision-making process and to enhance the societal impact and transfer of clinical research.
Overall, the patients’ quality of life will be improved.
General conditions for application
The initial duration of the clinical studies will be 48 months.
Any IICS must clearly demonstrate the potential health, economic, and/or policy impacts, as well
as the added value of transnational collaboration.
Proposals should follow the principles of Responsible Research and Innovation (RRI). Consortia
must show how they will engage with and address the relevant social, political, equity, environmental
or cultural dimensions of the proposed research. The proposal template and ERA4Health RRI
Guidelines further elaborate on how RRI dimensions can be approached (see our recommendation
in the guidelines for applicants).
IICS supported by ERA4Health must respect fundamental ethical principles. Applicants must fill an
ethical grid and describe any potential ethical aspects of the work to be carried out, and how the
clinical study will fulfil applicable requirements in institutional, national and European Union
legislation (including the ethical standards and guidelines of Horizon 2020/Europe 3).
The individual partners of the joint applications should be complementary in their expertise and the
proposed work should pursue a high implementation potential to benefit of end-
users/patients/citizens.
Furthermore, additional aspects need to be considered in the application:
3 https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/docs/2021-2027/common/guidance/how-to-complete-
your-ethics-self-assessment_en.pdf
11• The design of the clinical study (sample collection, statistical power, interpretation,
relevant models for hypothesis validation) must be well justified and should be part of
the proposal.
• Strategies for recruitment, retention, assessment, and analysis must be included. The
clinical study design and objectives should take into consideration the population that
would be needed to reach the objective of the study.
• Gender equality as well as inclusiveness of the diversity of the population in the
recruitment.
• Involvement of patient/patients' representatives and other relevant users in the co-
creation and implementation of the tasks
Please take in note that clinical studies conducted for direct commercial purposes are excluded from
support by the ERA4Health programme.
Participating countries and respective funding organisations
The following participating funding organisations have agreed to fund this call for transnational
clinical studies:
Country Funding organisation Acronym Contribution (€)
Austria Austrian Science Fund FWF 2.000.000
Czech Ministry of Health / Czech Health Research MZCR /AZVCR 500.000
Republic Council
France Ministry of Health Fr-MoH 2.000.000
Germany Federal Ministry for Education and Research BMBF/DLR 2.000.000
(BMBF)/DLR Project Management Agency
(DLR)
Ireland Health Research Board HRB 1.200.000
Israel Ministry of Health CSO-MOH 320.000
Italy Ministry of Health IT MOH 2.000.000
Latvia Latvian Council of Science LCS 800.000
Lithuania Research Council of Lithuania LMT 1.000.000
Norway Research Council of Norway RCN 900.000
Poland National Centre for Research and NCBR 2.500.000
Development
Slovakia Slovak Academy of Sciences SAS 240.000
12Spain Institute of Health Carlos III ISCIII 3.000.000
Spain Regional Ministry of Health and Consumer CSCJA 4 250.000
Affairs of Andalusia 4
Table 1: Participating funding organisations
The partners will be funded by their relevant national/regional funding organisations. Eligible costs
and funding rules vary between the respective funding organisations (see Annex I).
Application
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
Applicants must demonstrate that the research team contains the necessary breadth and depth of
expertise in all the methodological areas required to deliver the proposed study.
PIs should demonstrate experience and expertise in the conduct and delivery of clinical trials.
Size of the consortium
The number of participants and their research contribution should be appropriate for the aims of IICS
and be reasonably balanced in terms of international participation. Each IICS should represent the
critical mass to achieve ambitious scientific goals and should clearly demonstrate an added value
from working together.
Only transnational studies will be funded. The following conditions apply to the composition of
consortia:
A. A minimum of 3 (three) and a maximum of 5 (five) countries should be represented in the
consortium (the countries of the collaborators (see below) are not considered in this number)
B. If a partner is eligible by a funding organisation, which will grant a single partner (see Annex I
and table in the funding mechanism section from the guidelines for applicants), only one
national partner should be a part of the consortium. This partner will have the opportunity to
establish a collaboration agreement with other additional national recruiting sites and
allocate a budget to the recruitment sites. Those recruitment sites will be associated partners
to the consortium. If actual patient recruitment is lower than expected during the runtime of
the clinical study, initial recruiting sites may be substituted by additional ones, if it is possible
under the national/regional regulations of the respective national funding agency for that
specific partner.
4 During the lifetime of this call, funding authority CSCJA could be replaced (Partial Takeover) by the new entity
Instituto de Salud de Andalucía / Andalusian Health Institute (created by Law 1/2024 of June 21) which, in such
case, would assume CSCJA’s rights and obligations by means of the corresponding amendment to the Grant
Agreement 101095426.
13C. If there are partners eligible by a funding organisation, which will fund several partners for
this country/region in the consortium, the consortium can be composed with a maximum of
3 (three) partners eligible by this funding organisation. In this case, there will be no
collaboration agreement between those partners, and they will all be granted individually by
the funding organisation and have their own budget. These 3 partners will be counted as 1
(one) country for the maximum number of countries represented in the consortia.
D. The maximum number of countries can be increased to 6 (six) or 7 (seven) if they include 1
(one) or 2 (two) countries, respectively, from the following list: Czech Republic, Latvia.
E. The maximum number of funding organisations from the same country represented in each
research consortium will be 2 (two). If in the same consortium are participating eligible
applicants applying funding each of them to a different funding organisation from the same
country, they should respect the maximum number of partners, stated in bullet point B and C
according to the financial mode of those 2 (two) funding organisations. Please see national
guidelines for details.
F. A maximum of 3 (three) collaborators per consortium is allowed. Collaborators are self-
funded partners: i.e., partners that do not request funds from any of the participating funding
organisations (i.e., partners from non-funding countries or partners which are not fundable
according to national/regional regulations of the participating funding organisations). The
following conditions apply for collaborators:
o Clear added value for the IICS. This should be demonstrated in the proposal.
o Secure their own funding for participation with clear evidence in the proposal that
this is already in place.
o A letter of commitment of the collaborator(s) needs to be included as an annex to
the pre-proposal / full proposal.
o A collaborator cannot be work package leader.
o A collaborator cannot be a recruitment site for the study.
Number of countries
3-5 6 7
in the consortium
Number of
underrepresented
No constraints At least 1 At least 2
countries in the
consortium
Maximum number
of collaborators (be
aware it corresponds 3 3 3
to organisations not
countries)
Table 3: Possible composition of consortium
Each study consortium must nominate a clinical study coordinator among its partners (NOT a
collaborator). The clinical study coordinator cannot be an enterprise. The representative of the
clinical study coordinator, the coordinating investigator, will represent the consortium externally,
14will act as contact person for the Joint Call Secretariat (JCS) and will be responsible during the entire
process for the internal scientific management such as controlling, overseeing intellectual property
rights (IPR) issues, overseeing the work of a service provider responsible for the transversal activities
of the study (i.e. clinical study management activities at consortium level) as well as reporting to the
JCS.
Each Principal Investigator can submit only 1 (one) pre-proposal as coordinator or as simple partner
(i.e. the coordinator or the partner of a proposal cannot be partner in another proposal).
Financial and legal modalities
Clinical study partners will be funded by their relevant national/regional funding organisations.
Therefore, eligible costs, funding rules and other specific aspects allowed may vary between the
respective funding organisations (see Annex I). Due to these differences, it is recommended that each
clinical study partner defines its own budget in accordance with the funding rules of its own
country/region.
For information on the specific funding rules and eligibility criteria of the national/regional funding
organization, please carefully read Annex I and the national/regional announcements of the call and
the guidelines for applicants.
Applicants are consequently strongly encouraged to contact their national/regional contact points
to check their national/regional eligibility rules before submission (see Annex I). Please note in
some countries/regions this may be mandatory.
In addition, and with the respect of specific conditions detailed in the guidelines for applicants, an
additional budget representing up to 15% of the total budget requested to the national/regional
funders could be requested for covering the conduction of cross-cutting management activities (i.e.
clinical study management activities at consortium level) such as trial authorizations, drug, safety and
data management under the responsibility of the coordinating investigator and his/her legal entity.
See section "Funding Mechanism” in the guidelines for applicants for more details.
Please note that if a partner is found to be non-eligible at any step of the process by one of the
funding organisations, the entire proposal could be rejected without further review. Therefore,
please make sure to carefully read and follow the respective national/regional regulations in Annex
I.
Submission of joint proposals
There will be a two-step submission and evaluation procedure for joint applications, i.e. pre-
proposals, with invitation of successful consortia to submit a full proposal. In addition, the full
proposal review process will be complemented by a rebuttal phase and an interview jointly with the
coordinating investigator and a representative of the sponsor. The representative from the sponsor
that will be interviewed shall be identified by the consortia in the full proposal. This representative
shall be aware of the responsibilities of the sponsor in clinical trials and how the sponsor guarantees
the compliance with Good Clinical Practice and applicable regulation, as well as able to provide
information regarding the previous experience of the institution as sponsor.
15For both submission steps, one joint proposal document (in English) shall be prepared by the partners
of a transnational consortium following a pre-defined template and must be submitted to the JCS by
uploading it on the electronic submission system by the coordinating investigator.
The two-step application process will have the following timeline:
20 November, 2024 Publication of EffectTrial call
27 November, 2024 Webinar Info Day
28 January, 2025 Deadline for pre-proposal submission
15 April, 2025 Communication of the results of the pre-proposal
assessment (invitation for full proposal)
17 June, 2025 Deadline for full proposal submission
25 August – 5 September, 2025 Rebuttal stage
25 August – 5 September, 2025 Interview to assess the study feasibility
End of October, 2025 Communication of the funding decisions to the applicants
January – May 2026 Expected project start (subject to national procedures)
Table 1: Timeline application process
The pre-proposal template is available on the ERA4Health website (https://era4health.eu/pre-
announcement-of-effectrial-call/).
An application template for the full proposal stage will be sent to the coordinating investigator by
the JCS with the invitation to submit a full proposal.
The pre-proposals or full proposals submitted without using the relevant template will be declared
non-eligible. In addition, the limit of the length of the different sections of the template should be
strictly respected.
For applicants from specific countries/regions it might be mandatory to submit an additional
national/regional proposal and/or other information, in some cases before the deadline of this call,
directly to the national/regional funding organisations. Therefore, applicants are strongly advised to
check their funding organisations specific regulations. See Annex I for more details.
For the submission of full proposals, the widening concept will be applied. It will therefore be
possible, but not mandatory, to add partners that are eligible for funding by certain funding
organisations (with low number of eligible applicants at the first step). The inclusion of new partner(s)
should be relevant for your proposal, and the new partner(s) should be well integrated in your
consortium. The list of the participating funding organisations/countries will be provided by the JCS
when the results of the first step will be communicated to the coordinators. The maximum of 7
countries within the consortium should still be respected. Finally, it is mandatory for the new
partner(s) to contact her/his national funding organizations and obtain approval before the
submission of the full proposal (see contact details in Annex I of the call text).
16Further information
For additional information, please contact the JCS, or your national/regional funding organisation
Contact Person (see Annex I).
Evaluation and decision
Eligibility check and evaluation procedure
Formal check and evaluation of pre-proposal
After submission, the JCS will check all pre-proposals to ensure that they meet the call’s formal
criteria (date of submission; number of participating countries; inclusion of all necessary information
in English; appropriate limits on length). In parallel, the JCS will give access to the pre-proposals to
the national/regional funding organisations, which will perform a check for compliance with
national/regional regulations.
The pre-proposal of each consortium passing the eligibility check (JCS and country/region) will be
evaluated by external reviewers. Evaluation of a pre-proposal will be made by three reviewers with
a scientific/clinical background. Potential conflicts of interests of the evaluators will be taken into
consideration during the allocation of the proposals. The reviewers will perform the assessment of
the pre-proposals and complete a written evaluation form with scores and comments for the
evaluation criteria that they should evaluate. The evaluation will include an eligibility check that the
proposal is included in the call scope (e.g. disease area, type of trial, etc). Based on the scores in the
written evaluations, a ranking list will be established. The Clinical Study Steering Committee (CLSC)
members will meet to decide which proposals will be invited to submit a full proposal based on the
reviewers’ recommendations and to ensure a reasonable balance of requested and available
national/regional budgets. Pre-proposals which do not pass this assessment will not be invited for
the full proposal stage. All consortia will receive the full evaluation reports, excluding the evaluation
scores.
Formal check and evaluation of full proposals
After submission, the JCS will check the full proposals to ensure that they meet the call’s formal
criteria and have not changed substantially from the respective pre-proposals before sending them
to the reviewers. Any fundamental change between the two-stage evaluation, e.g. concerning the
composition of the consortium, the objectives of the study or the requested budget must be
communicated to the JCS and to the national/regional involved funding organisations. In exceptional
cases, these changes may be approved if detailed justification is provided and if they are accepted by
the CLSC.
17Each full proposal will be allocated to three reviewers with a scientific/clinical background and taking
into consideration the potential conflicts of interest between the reviewers and the applicants. One
of these three reviewers will have specific expertise in clinical trial methodology and biostatistics.
The reviewers will perform the assessment of the full proposal and complete a written evaluation
form with scores and comments for each criterion (see evaluation criteria below).
Additionally, a Patient Advocacy Committee will assess the patient involvement and relevance for
patient needs in the full proposals and will complete a written review.
Each coordinator is provided with the opportunity of getting acquainted with the assessments and
commenting on the arguments and evaluations of the reviewers (see section “Rebuttal”) before the
Peer Review Panel (PRP) members meet to discuss each full proposal in a PRP meeting.
In addition, an online interview of the coordinator and the person responsible for the
implementation of clinical studies in the sponsor organisation, according to the organisation's legal
structure and identified by the consortia in the full proposal, will take place. This interview will
evaluate the capacity of the sponsor and the coordinator to implement the clinical study. Apart from
the coordinator and the representative of the sponsor, a maximum of two other additional
representatives of the research consortium can attend this online interview, in case that their specific
expertise is needed to demonstrate the capacity to implement the clinical study (e.g. biostatistician
of the research consortium).
During the PRP meeting, the reviewers will discuss all proposals and produce a ranking list of
proposals recommended for funding. Two representatives of the Patient Advocacy Committee will
be invited to take part in the discussion and present their assessment of the patient involvement of
each proposal during the PRP meeting. They will have voting rights similar to the scientific evaluators
attending the PRP, in case that a voting procedure is needed to take the final decision.
Evaluation Criteria
Proposals not relevant to the call topic and objectives (out of the scope) will be declared ineligible
and will not be funded and forwarded to full proposal stage independently of their scientific quality.
Pre-proposal
1. Excellence
• Scientific relevance, scientific quality and target of an unmet clinical need.
• Previous research and evidence, supporting the objective of the trial and the estimated effect
size (i.e. background, state of the art); adequacy of search strategy to previous research
evidence.
2. Impact
18• Impact on patient benefit, clinical practice, and the healthcare system (e.g. socio-economic
impact)
• Transnational added value rather than a national/regional study
• Involvement of patients and other relevant stakeholders the design and execution of the IICS
and the dissemination of its results.
• Quality of the approach to RRI in realising the scientific and clinical objectives.
3. Quality and efficiency of the implementation
• Adequacy of study design, suitability of methodological approach
• Ethical acceptability, feasibility of the project
• Quality of the research team (complementarity of expertise, expertise in relation to the
project, expertise in multicentric clinical studies).
Full proposal
1. Excellence
• Innovation and scientific relevance of the study and how it will contribute to extend the
knowledge beyond the state of the art, potential to change the current medical/clinical
practice.
• Relevance for patient needs.
• Scientific quality and pertinence of the objectives
• Soundness of the evidence presented (supported by an adequate search strategy) in support
of the medical need, the study rationale, and the estimated effect size; including
presentation of other existing trials addressing a comparable question (if applicable) and
documentation of clinical safety of the agent(s), if applicable.
2. Impact
• Added value of transnational collaboration
• Expected impact of the study at short-term and long-term level related with the duration and
budget. Potential of the expected results in terms of potential impact for: patients, public
health, clinical practice and/or other socio-economic health relevant applications and
potential commercial exploitation.
• Effectiveness of proposed measures to exploit and disseminate the study results (including
engagement with patients and other public groups) and manage research data
• Substantive involvement of pertinent patient organisations or patient representatives or
other relevant stakeholders (in planning and execution of the trial, and dissemination of the
results).
• Appropriate integration of RRI dimensions within the study design.
193. Quality and efficiency of the implementation
• Adequacy, coherence and feasibility of the study design to verify the hypothesis(es) and to
respond to the medical need
• Feasibility of the study according to the planned duration and available budget
• Coherence and effectiveness of the work plan and study design (appropriateness of the
allocation of tasks, resources, timeframe, infrastructural support to the clinical trial
• Feasibility of recruitment (Feasibility of recruitment rates; Feasibility of the trial in the
proposed population/time frame; Adequateness of the site selection criteria; Adequateness
of the documented feasibility of the recruitment by the recruiting centres.
• Appropriateness of the management structures and procedures, including risk and
innovation management and the communication flow among partners and among the
different boards/committees.
• Description of potential risks, including the recruitment risks, and adequate pre-planned
counter measures, including involvement of and charter for independent data monitoring
and safety committee where relevant
• Adequacy of resources, staff and activities dedicated to RRI, including ELSI (Ethical, Legal and
Social Issues) aspects, in design and implementation of the clinical study.
• Adequacy of the plan for compliance with regulatory requirements and international
standards (GCP, Declaration of Helsinki, CONSORT-Statement).
• Management of research data according to FAIR data principles and where relevant,
adequateness of planned strategies for long-term accessibility and potential re-use of study
data.
4. Competence of the research team and quality of research environment
• Competence and experience of participating partners (previous work in the field, specific
technical expertise, proven track record in multicentre clinical trials)
• Complementarity and completeness of skills within the consortium (clinical, methodological,
biostatistical expertise)
• Meaningful links to multinational networks and existing infrastructures.
5. Methods and Design of the clinical trial
• Relevance and adequateness of the outcome measures with respect to the overall objectives
of the trial; Relevance of chosen primary and secondary outcomes for patients.
• Adequacy of the target and study population and of the controls and/or comparators
• Adequacy of the consideration of the potential clinical and epidemiological consequences of
the trial results
• Adequacy of randomisation criteria
• Adequacy of methods against bias and the proposed strategy for statistical and biostatistical
analysis and sample size calculation
• Impact of non-compliance and missing values on the sample size.
A consortium will not be funded if the sponsor does not present the capacity to implement the
clinical study, independently of the scientific quality of its proposal.
20Scoring system
Evaluation scores will be awarded for each main criterion. Each criterion will be scored out of five.
The weight of each main criterion is equal.
0 = Failure. The proposal fails to address the criteria or cannot be assessed due to missing or
incomplete information.
1 = Poor. The criteria are inadequately addressed, or there are serious inherent weaknesses.
2 = Fair. The proposal broadly addresses the criteria, but there are significant weaknesses.
3 = Good. The proposal addresses the criteria well, but a number of shortcomings are present.
4 = Very Good. The proposal addresses the criteria very well, but a small number of shortcomings
are present.
5 = Excellent. The proposal successfully addresses all relevant aspects of the criteria. Any
shortcomings are minor.
Only integer values are accepted.
The maximum scoring for pre-proposals will be 15 points and for full proposals 25 points.
Full proposal will be considered fundable if the threshold score for individual criterion is 3 points
and the overall score is at least 17 points.
Rebuttal stage
Before the PRP members meet to discuss the full proposals in a PRP meeting, each coordinator is
provided with the complete reviewers’ assessments. This stage allows applicants to comment on
factual errors or misunderstandings that may have occurred in the review process and to reply to
reviewers’ questions. However, issues not related to reviewers’ comments or questions cannot be
addressed and the work plan cannot be modified at this stage.
The applicants will have up to 12 calendar days (25th August to 5th September, 2025) for this
optional response to the reviewers’ comments. Answers sent after the notified deadline, or not
related with reviewers’ comments or questions will be disregarded.
Interview of the sponsor
The coordinating investigator and the representative of the sponsor will be jointly interviewed by an
interview committee (formed by 3 experts that will be part of the PRP) to determinate the capacity
of the coordinator to implement the proposed clinical study and of the sponsor to manage it. The JCS
will attend the interviews as observer.
During the interview, a qualitative assessment of the feasibility of the trial will be performed, taking
into account:
- The previous experience of the coordinating investigator and the sponsor in conducting
multicentre and/or multinational clinical trials
- Daily management and operational aspects of the study
21- Risk identification and planned mitigation measures
- the governance and communication flows among the committees that they will put in place
to ensure the feasibility of the trial
All PRP members will receive the feedback of the interview committee (which will be a qualitative
gradual assessment of the feasibility of the study) which will be considered during the PRP discussion
in the PRP meeting.
PRP meeting
The JCS will give the PRP members access to all full proposals, reviews and rebuttals, outcomes of
the interview of the coordinators and sponsors, avoiding any conflicts of interest. The PRP will meet
to discuss each proposal and, after consideration of the evaluation criteria, external reviews (patient
representatives), rebuttals, interview outcomes, their own reviews and discussions, the PRP will
assign final scores, make a classification of the proposals, and rank proposals recommended for
funding. The final summary review report prepared by the PRP members will be sent to the respective
coordinating investigators.
Ethical clearance
After the PRP meeting, ethics experts will remotely check the full proposals, which are recommended
for funding by the PRP and selected for funding by the CLSC, for alignment with ethical norms and
regulations5. A meeting will also be organised for a discussion between the different ethics experts,
if necessary. The ethics experts may ask the consortium for clarifications on the ethical points related
to the proposed research approaches. The Ethics experts may highlight some vigilance points that
need to be monitored during the implementation of the funded clinical study. Only those proposals
approved by both the scientific evaluation and ethical assessment (complying with all central Horizon
Europe and regional/national ethical requirements), will be funded.
Clinical study selection and reconfiguration process
A first selection of the clinical studies for funding identified as the main list will be made by the
national/regional funding organisations based on the ranking list established by the PRP, available
funding and the ethical clearance outcomes.
After the establishment of the main list, additional clinical studies that have been assessed to be of
good quality by the evaluation process could be invited to restructure their consortia, if there is any
remaining funding budget. Research consortia will be provided 10 calendar days for this
reconfiguration process.
Restructuring may take place with the following boundary conditions:
• Invitation for restructuring will take place only when availability of certain national/regional
funding is the limiting factor
5 Reference to EU Regulation 2021/695 and how-to-complete-your-ethics-self-assessment_en.pdf
(europa.eu)
22• Restructuring is possible only in cases where changes affect only one partner of the clinical
study consortium; and in this step only a partner that serves as recruiting site of the clinical
study or a service provider can be replaced.
• Restructuring cannot lead to the change of the coordinating investigator
• The central eligibility criteria of at least 3 funded partners from 3 different countries is
respected
• Restructuring can take effect either through non-funded participation of the partner (this
partner would act as a self-funded collaborator, being possible to increase to a maximum
number of 4 collaborators in the consortium at this stage, in case that there are already 3
collaborators involved) or through finding a replacement partner eligible for funding from a
funding organisation that still has funds available.
The clinical studies that are invited to resubmit their proposal with a restructured consortium must
still meet the eligibility criteria of the call. In principle, the JCS will check the restructuring process.
Only if needed, it will be checked by an independent expert(s) or PRP member(s) to ensure that there
is no loss of quality in the proposal. The selection of the clinical studies to be funded among the
resubmitted proposals will be guided by the outcome of the evaluation process and the availability
of national budgets. After the approval of the CLSC, a second selection of studies for funding can be
established.
IMPORTANT: If at any point of the proposal selection phase, or the clarification and negotiation
phase, a clinical study partner or collaborator with a crucial role in the study (e.g. to ensure the
number of patient recruitment, drug/intervention provider) withdraws from the clinical study, is
ineligible or not able to fulfil its commitment as stated in the proposal, the proposal is irrevocably
disqualified without the opportunity of restructuring. Furthermore, if at any point, the coordinating
investigator withdraws from the clinical study, is ineligible or not able to fulfil its commitment as
stated in the proposal, the clinical study proposal is irrevocably disqualified without the opportunity
of restructuring. In any case, a restructuring of the consortium can lead to a re-evaluation of the
proposal.
Coordinating investigators having submitted an eligible proposal will be informed about the funding
recommendation regarding their proposal by the JCS. Coordinating investigators are responsible to
communicate this information to their clinical study partners.
Redress procedure
Applicants can appeal against the evaluation outcome if they suspect a breach in the application of
the evaluation and selection procedures. This redress procedure only covers the procedural aspects
of the evaluation and/or central formal eligibility checks.
Requests for redress on national/regional eligibility decisions will not be handled by the JCS and need
to be addressed to the responsible national contact point. A mere disagreement with peer reviewers
or panel members’ comments are not grounds for an appeal. The redress procedure will not call into
question the scientific or technical judgement of appropriately qualified experts.
23In this case the applicants shall submit their appeal to the JCS via email (EffecTrial@isciii.es) up to 7
calendar days after the date of the eligibility check or evaluation outcome email notifications by the
call secretariat at the end of each step (eligibility check, first or second evaluation stage).
Admissibility of appeals
For an appeal to be admissible the following conditions must be met:
- The appeal must be submitted by the coordinator of the proposal to which the appeal relates
- Only one appeal per proposal can be submitted after each step
- The appeal must be submitted via email within the 7 calendar days deadline. The appeal must
contain the following minimum information:
• The name of the call for proposals
• The proposal acronym
• The title of the proposal
• A description of the alleged shortcomings of the evaluation procedure
The appeal must demonstrate a procedural irregularity, factual or manifest errors in the evaluation
process, misuse of powers, or a conflict of interests. Appeals that do not meet the above conditions,
or do not deal with the evaluation of a specific proposal or express mere disagreement with the result
or the reasoning of the evaluation will be judged as not suitable for redress.
Procedure
Upon receipt of an appeal, an acknowledgement of receipt will be sent by the call secretariat as soon
as the email is read. The acknowledgement shall report the redress process and the anticipated date
by which a decision on the appeal will be communicated to the appellant.
All appeals received by the 7 calendar days deadline will be processed together by a designated
Redress Committee and the decision will be communicated to the appellant within 10 calendar days
after the deadline for submitting the appeals.
Responsibilities, Reporting requirements and Dissemination
Consortium Agreement
The coordinating investigator will be responsible for drawing up a Consortium Agreement (CA)
suitable to the study partners to manage the delivery of the study activities, finances, Intellectual
Property Rights (IPR), to handle confidential data (e.g. patient data) and to avoid disputes which
might be detrimental to the completion of the study. The consortium is strongly encouraged to sign
this CA before the official study start date, and in any case the CA should be signed in the first 6
months of the clinical study. Please note that national regulations may apply concerning the
requirement for a CA (e.g. certain funding organisations may need the signed CA to release some
funds). Further instructions will be provided by the JCS to the coordinators of the clinical studies
selected for funding.
24Open Science
Importantly, all funding recipients must ensure that all outcomes (publications, etc.) of transnational
ERA4Health-funded clinical studies are published with Open Access. Clinical studies funded by
ERA4Health are eligible to publish on Open Research Europe (ORE), the Platform of the EC 6 at no
cost.
The new research data resulting from the study should be treated according to the FAIR 7 principles,
and deposited and shared, according to the national rules of the countries involved. To make
research data findable, accessible, interoperable and re-usable (FAIR), a Data Management strategy
for the full proposals is mandatory in the second evaluation stage. Studies selected to receive funding
in the current call, will be requested to present a more detailed Data Management Plan (DMP) before
month 6 from the official start of the study and an update of the DMP will be asked at the end of the
clinical studies.
Monitoring
Project coordinators are required upon notification to deliver an abstract of their project suitable for
communication and dissemination purposes.
The coordinating investigator is required to submit an annual scientific progress report on behalf of
the consortium to the JCS in March of each year following a pre-defined template, detailing how the
study is progressing in relation to planned objectives, with an additional progress report at month 6
of the project. In this 6-month progress report it will be included detailed information about the
recruitment (total recruitment and recruitment broken down for all partners by trial site).
Furthermore, a final scientific report must be sent to the JCS within a period of two months after the
study has ended. In addition to the reports, information related to some indicators related to the
study may be collected on a platform/survey. The project coordinator is requested to justify the
accomplishment of several critical milestones that will ensure the correct performance of the clinical
study. It will be required periodic reporting on the following milestones that have to be defined in
the full proposal (including an update on M1 milestones when all approvals and agreement are in
place to facilitate First Patient First Visit (FPFV)):
M1: The Project has obtained all Milestone 1.1. Proof of registration
administrative and regulatory
Milestone 1.2. Final approved version of the study protocol
authorisations
(referring to the one that will be submitted to National Competent
Authorities (NCA) and EC / the one that will be sent for publication)
Milestone 1.3. Final approved version of the Data
Management Plan
6https://open-research-europe.ec.europa.eu/
7 https://www.nature.com/articles/sdata201618
25Milestone 1.4. Establishment of Governance Boards, including
Data Safety Monitoring Board
Milestone 1.5. Data Management System
Milestone 1.6. Agreements in place*
M2: First Patient First Visit (FPFV)
M3: 25% final target recruitment
M4: 50% final target recruitment
M5: 75% final target recruitment
M6: 100 % final target recruitment
M7: Last Patient Last Visit (LPLV)
M8: Analysis of results
M9: Publication of results
*Including:
- Sponsor-site agreements with all participating recruiting sites
- Sponsor-vendor agreements, including drug supplier, drug distributor and all other applicable (Contract
Research Organization -CROs-, Clinical Trials Unit -CTUs- for monitoring, data and/or project management and
vigilance) agreements
- Insurance (if applicable)
The description of status and dates for all agreements in all countries should be stated.
National funding organisations may also request additional financial and/or scientific annual progress
reports and/or a final report on the study from the partners from their respective country.
In addition, the coordinators of each consortium may be asked to participate in a kick-off meeting
and present two progress updates, one mid-term and one final status symposium organised by
ERA4Health. An appropriate travel budget should be included and justified in the financial plan of the
proposal. In the case that some of the events are organised as an online conference, all partners of
the consortia will be encouraged to participate.
Communication
The coordinating investigator will represent the consortium externally and will be responsible for all
communication with the relevant ERA4Health bodies. The coordinator must promptly inform the JCS
in case of any significant changes in the work plan or the consortium’s composition. The JCS will
inform the relevant funding organisations, who will decide upon the proper action to be taken.
Coordinating investigators, upon notification, are required to deliver an abstract of their study
suitable for communication and dissemination purposes.
26For the effective contribution of the study to the objectives of the ERA4Health, the coordinating
investigator should be available to participate in meetings/workshops with the aim of:
• Exchanging study results
• Developing a joint strategy to coordinate and facilitate integration of the planned activities
of ERA4Health
• Communicating results across ERA4Health
Importantly, all funding recipients must ensure that all outcomes (publications, etc.) of transnational
ERA4Health funded studies include proper acknowledgement of the ERA4Health partnership and the
respective funding partner organisations.
“This study received funding from [name of funding organisations, or an acknowledgment as
requested by your national/regional funding organisations] under the umbrella of the Partnership
Fostering a European Research Area for Health (ERA4Health) (GA N° 101095426 of the EU Horizon
Europe Research and Innovation Programme).”
Confidentiality
The Clinical Study Steering Committee (CLSC, composed of one representative from each funding
organisation participating in the call) and the JCS will take all lawful steps to ensure confidentiality of
the information and documents obtained during the evaluation and selection procedure of the joint
call.
The proposals will be handled confidentially by the JCS and by the national/regional funding
organisations. In selecting the international experts for the PRP, the ethical experts and the patient
representatives, the JCS shall endeavour to avoid any possible Conflicts of Interest (CoI).
Each expert will have to sign a declaration of confidentiality and absence of conflict of interest. In
case of a CoI, the reviewer will be withdrawn from evaluating the respective proposal. Conflicts of
interest are managed and recorded throughout the evaluation process.
General Data Protection Regulation
The following Data Privacy Notice applies:
By submitting an application, the applicants consent to the use, processing and retention of their
personal data8, in accordance with article 6.1 (e) and (c) of the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR) (2016/679) and for the purposes of:
8 Last name, first name of the researchers, date of birth, professional contact information, degree(s), position (current and
previous), fields of activity, place of work, organisation, address(es), curriculum vitae, ORCID number, name and reference
of studys, LoIs, study proposals (scientific document, administrative and financial appendix).
27• Processing and evaluating the application where processing shall be lawful only if and to the
extent that processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public
interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller
• Administering any subsequent funding award
• Managing the funding organisations relationship with them
• Analysing and evaluating the call
• Providing aggregate data to national and European surveys and analyses on the funded
clinical studies
• Complying with audits that may be initiated by the funding organisations and the European
Commission (or its agencies).
The members of the CLSC may share applicant’s data with third parties (some of which may be based
outside the European Economic Area) in relation to the above activities including evaluators, auditors
and the European Commission (or its agencies).
The members of the CLSC may link the data that funding recipients provide in the application with
national, bibliographic or external research funding data which are available through public
subscription-based databases (e.g. Scopus, Web of Science, etc.) or other national / open datasets.
28ANNEX I
Country Austria
Austrian Science Fund (FWF)
Funding organisation
www.fwf.ac.at
Markus Kubicek
Tel.: +43 1 505 67 40 - 8202
E-Mail: markus.kubicek@fwf.ac.at
National contact person
Stefanie Schagginger
Tel.: +43 1 505 67 40 - 8213
E-Mail: stefanie.schagginger@fwf.ac.at
Funding commitment € 2.000.000€,00
Anticipated number of The FWF anticipates funding of 5 projects, given an average amount of
fundable proposals funding per partner of approx. 400.000.
Maximum/ Minimum The FWF generally does not have any minimum or maximum limits but,
funding per grant given the limited nature of the financial commitment of the FWF to this Call
awarded to a clinical (see above), we do expect Austrian participations not to exceed the average
study partner range of an FWF stand-alone Project (typically € 300.000 to €450.000 ).
For the FWF, both options are theoretically possible:
- All participating organisations will be granted and should be part of the
clinical study consortium. A maximum of 3 partners are authorised.
- Or only one organisation will be granted and this organisation will
Funding mechanism
establish a collaboration with other recruitment sites via subcontracting
or a collaboration agreement
Please contact the FWF office for a detailed clarification which approach
would be the most appropriate for your proposal.
The proposed research must be carried out in Austria under the auspices of
the Austrian lead research institution The principal investigator must be
employed at the Austrian research institution applying for funding at the
time the project is scheduled to begin. All Austrian research institutions are
eligible to apply if they are registered in the FWF's research institution
portal. Applications are to be submitted by the research institution where
the project is to be carried out. Neither a specific academic degree nor
Eligibility of partners
Austrian citizenship is required to act as principal investigator. The principal
investigator must, however, have appropriate scientific qualifications (see
section 1.4) and sufficient time resources to carry out the proposed
research. The research institution must provide the necessary
infrastructure.
Please refer to the general FWF Application Guidelines and the respective
Application and project number limit
Project-specific costs are eligible for funding. These include personnel and
non-personnel costs that are needed to carry out the project and that are
Eligibility of costs, types
not included in the infrastructure provided by the research institution. The
and their caps
FWF does not finance the infrastructure or basic equipment of research
institutions.The current FWF Personnel Costs and Salary Rates scale indicates the
salaries that may be requested. The FWF grants an annual salary adjustment
to compensate for inflation, which is applied automatically to all contracts
of employment in Principal Investigator projects that are valid when the
adjustment takes effect.
Please refer to the FWF Application Guidelines
Duration of the clinical
Funding requested for FWF Principal Investigator Projects is limited to a
study
maximum of 48 months.
Specific rules for A cost-neutral extension of up to 12 months is possible and must be applied
potential extensions for at the FWF before the official end date of the project.
In addition to the application at the ERA4Health level, administrative data
(in accordance with the FWF Guidelines for Principal Investigator Projects)
must be submitted online to the FWF at https://elane.fwf.ac.at/
This is required already at the pre-proposal stage via the programme
category “PIK – International Projects preproposal” no later than January
29, 2024, 14:00 CET. For the full proposal stage applicants must choose the
programme category “PIN– International Projects” (Deadline June 18,
2024, 14:00 CET. Both steps are mandatory.
All proposals must be submitted using the elane online portal. Project
funding is administered through the research institution (PROFI mode); for
Submission of the this reason, the submission must be approved in the application portal
proposal at the national both by the applicant and by the respective research institution before the
level respective deadlines (see above).
Please note that the number of ongoing/approved projects in which one
researcher can serve as principal investigator is limited to three in the
Stand-Alone Projects Programme, International Programmes, Clinical
Research and Arts-Based Research Programmes. Information on the limit
of the number of ongoing/approved projects and the limit of applications
that can be submitted can be found at project_number_limit.pdf
(fwf.ac.at)
For information on submitting an application from abroad please refer to he
the FWF Website Applying from Abroad.
Submission of other
information at the See above
national level
Annual Status Report: The principal investigators of ongoing projects are
required to report published research results on an annual basis. For further
information, please refer to the information on Annual Status Reports.
Submission of financial
Final Project Report: After completion of the project, in addition to the
and scientific reports at
research results, information on statistical and program-specific issues as
the national level
well as any changes to the project as originally planned are also documented
in Researchfish. Principal investigators are notified by email and provided
with initial information about Researchfish and their reporting obligations.The FWF requests annual updates to include subsequently published results
for up to 5 years after the end of the project.
The FWF expects the start of the project within six months from the date of
Staring date of the
of approval notification. Any further delays of up to 12 months after
clinical study
notification must be justified, otherwise the funding approval may be
rescinded.
The principal investigator’s publication record over the last five years must
be internationally visible and commensurate with the expected career path
in their field. The following criteria apply for the assessment of an applicant’s
publication record and initiation of the review process:
Quality assurance: Most relevant in assessing the applicant’s publication
record are those publications that have been subject to a quality assurance
procedure in line with international standards (peer review or an equivalent
procedure; in the natural and life sciences, peer review is expected). Journals
must usually be listed in Web of Science, Scopus, or the Directory of Open
Access Journals (DOAJ). For journals not listed in those databases, or for
monographs, edited volumes, contributions to edited volumes, or other
publication types, the applicant must provide a link to the publisher’s
website which contains a description of the applicable quality assurance
procedure. Should no such description be available on the website, it is the
applicant’s responsibility to provide evidence that the publication has been
subject to a quality assurance procedure in accordance with the standards
of the field.
International visibility: The majority of the applicant’s publications must
Further guidance
have a wider than national reach. In the natural sciences, life sciences, and
social sciences, most of the publications listed must be in English.
Number/scope and quality of the publications must be commensurate with
the researcher’s expectable career path and the respective discipline. At
least two publications must be quality-assured and internationally visible
publications with a substantial and independent contribution by the
applicant. At least one publication with first, last, or corresponding
authorship is required, with the exception of publications in journals (or
disciplines) that rank authors alphabetically. If any such publications are
included in the required document PI_publication.pdf, the applicant’s
contribution must be specified.
If there is any uncertainty about general application requirements or about
accounting for career interruptions, the FWF recommends contacting the
FWF Office or the FWF Equal Opportunities and Diversity in Research
Funding unit in good time before submitting the application to confirm that
all requirements are met and that any career interruptions can be
accounted for. In cases of doubt, the appropriate decision-making bodies of
the FWF shall decide on applicants’ eligibility.Country Czech Republic
Funding organisation Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic
National contact person Monika Kocmanova
Funding commitment 500 000 EUR
Anticipated number of
2
fundable proposals
The maximum funding per grant awarded to a clinical study partner is
250,000 EUR. However, the final decision about the maximum funding per
Maximum/ Minimum grant will depend on the number of proposals submitted to the pre-proposal
funding per grant stage or the number of proposals with Czech participation recommended
awarded to a clinical for funding by the international evaluation committee. In the case of only
study partner one Czech project proposal being recommended for funding, the amount of
finance support per project may be increased.
Only one organisation will be granted and this organisation will establish a
collaboration with other recruitment sites via subcontracting or a
Funding mechanism collaboration agreement
Research Organisations, Enterprises. All eligibility rules and criteria can be
found on the Czech Health Research website (AZV ČR – Agentura pro
Eligibility of partners zdravotnický výzkum České republiky (azvcr.cz). It is recommended to
contact the responsible person at the Czech Health Research Council (prior
to submission regarding the eligibility criteria).
All eligibility of costs, types and their caps can be found on the Czech Health
Research website (AZV ČR – Agentura pro zdravotnický výzkum České
Eligibility of costs, types
republiky (azvcr.cz)). It is recommended to contact the responsible person
and their caps
at the Czech Health Research Council prior to submission regarding the
eligibility criteria.
Duration of the clinical
48 months
study
Specific rules for
An optional cost-neutral extension of 1 year if needed
potential extensions
Submission of the
proposal at the national NO
level
Prior to submission of the pre-proposal to IICS, Czech researchers need to
submit to the Czech Health Research Council the following documents:
Submission of other 1. Sworn statement
information at the 2. Sworn statement of composition consortium
national level 3. Application form
All these documents are available on the website at the Czech Health
Research Council AZV ČR – Agentura pro zdravotnický výzkum České
republiky (azvcr.cz).Prior to submission of the full proposal to IICS, Czech researchers need to
submit to the Czech Health Research Council the following documents:
1. Ethics documents
2. Updated budget table
More information about ethics documents is available on the website of
the Czech Health Research Council AZV ČR – Agentura pro zdravotnický
výzkum České republiky (azvcr.cz); and also part of the document
“Methodology for European Partnerships in Health” in the chapter 7.2.1
Eligibility requirement for applicants.
In case the projects of Czech participants are recommended for funding
based on the results of the international evaluation and after the approval
of the representatives of the funding authorities of the countries
participating in IICS, the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic / the Czech
Health Research Council may ask the successful Czech participants to submit
additional documents in order to issue a decision on the provision of
purpose-special support according to the rules established by the Ministry
of Health of the Czech Republic/ the Czech Health Research Council.
Submission of scientific and financial reports will be required according to
Submission of financial
the national rules. All necessary information is part of the document called
and scientific reports at
“Methodology for European Partnerships in Health,” available on the
the national level
website.
Starting date of the In line with the start date of the project as stated in the “Contract” or
clinical study “Decision” on the provision of support or the issuance of a decision.
Further guidance AZV ČR – Czech Health Research Agency (azvcr.cz)FRANCE
Country
Funding organisation FR MOH – Ministry of Health
National contact person DGOS-era4health@sante.gouv.fr
Funding commitment 2.000.000 €
Anticipated number of
3 to 4
fundable proposals
Maximum/ Minimum
funding per grant
700.000 € Maximum
awarded to a clinical
study partner
Only one organisation will be granted and this organisation will establish
a collaboration with other recruitment sites via subcontracting or a
Funding mechanism
collaboration agreement
Eligible institutions: French ministry of Health (Fr MoH) funds French
healthcare institutions defined by public health regulation articles L.611-
1 and further, L.6141-1 and further, L6161-1 and further (établissements
de santé), L6133-1 to 8 (groupements de coopération sanitaire), L6323-3
(maisons de santé) and L6323-1 (centres de santé) of the Code de la Santé
Publique.
A partner must be composed of a physical leader and of a health care
institution, which manages the financing.
Eligibility of partners
The physical leader must be contractually linked to a healthcare
institution and get its approval to be part of the project. For example,
leaders can be private health professionals if they have a binding
agreement with a French healthcare institution.
Minimum funding per awarded to a partner: 10 000 €
Fr MoH will avoid double funding and will not finance projects or parts of
projects that have been funded through other calls.
Funds are reserved for the exclusive use of French healthcare institutions
involved in the project. Transfer for part of these funds to other French
structures, organisations or physical or legal person may be allowed
provided they are not eligible for funding by another financing body of
Eligibility of costs, types the partnership. The healthcare institution would also have to
and their caps demonstrate that they do not have the necessary skills. If so, public
tenders rules including call of bides applies.
Investment expenses giving rise to depreciation are not eligible.
Management costs up to 10% of personal expenses are eligible.
Duration of the clinical
48 months
study
Extension is not automatic. A report explaining the project extension
request must be submitted to the FR MOH with all supporting documents at
Specific rules for
least 6 months before the project end date. The extension may not exceed
potential extensions
1 year and cannot give rise to additional funding payments. The extension
cannot exceed the end date of the partnership.Submission of the The certificate and budget grid available on Fr MoH website page must be
proposal at the national fulfilled and sent before submission deadline. See online for further
level instructions.
Submission of other
information at the
national level
A report on expenses is submitted to FR MOH each year by the funded
Submission of financial
institutions. The expenses reported must be in direct relation with the
and scientific reports at
project. They must be necessary for project implementation and conform to
the national level
the selected project.
The project begins as soon as possible after the results of the Call have been
Starting date of the
confirmed. The official project start date must be communicated to the FR
clinical study
MOH by the funded institution as soon as it is known.
Funds delegation will be performed through budgetary circulars of the Fr
Further guidance
MoH. Funds will be allowed regarding project progression.Country Germany
Federal Ministry for Education and Research (BMBF) represented by the
Funding organisation Programme Management Agency in the German Aerospace Centre (DLR-
PT)
Name : Dr. Svenja Finck
Dr. Kristina Foterek
Phone: +49 228 3821 1877
+49 228 3821 1161
E-mail: era4health@dlr.de
National contact
Address: DLR PT, on behalf of the BMBF
person
Heinrich-Konen-Str. 1
53227 Bonn
Germany
Prior the submitting of the proposal, it is highly recommended to get in
touch with the national contact persons to clarify the specific requirements
o f this call.
Up to 2.0 Mio €
Only consortia whose research question includes at least the use of one
Funding commitment nutrition and/or lifestyle interventions are eligible for funding from
BMBF/DLR-PT. The comparison of e.g. two pharmacological interventions
cannot be funded by BMBF/DLR-PT. Please note that dietary supplements
in pharmacological doses are not considered a nutrition intervention.
Anticipated number of
4-5
fundable proposals
Up to 350.000 € for regular German partners; up to 500.000 € for German
Maximum/ Minimum partners in the role of the sponsor (overhead costs included). Only one
funding per grant German partner per consortium is allowed. The applicants (PI) are not
awarded to a clinical allowed to participate in more than one research proposal. The number of
study partner recruitment sites in Germany depends on the intended sample size and the
structure of the consortium and is not restricted.
Only one German partner per proposal will be granted and this organisation
Funding mechanism will establish a collaboration with other German recruitment sites via case
payments based on collaboration agreements.
Eligible applicants are researchers or research groups from German
universities, German university hospitals and German non-university
Eligibility of partners research institutes. Enterprises in the commercial sector are only eligible to
apply in exceptional cases if they are also a healthcare organisation. For
specific conditions see also link to German version of the call below.
The following costs are eligible for funding (details see German version of
the call):
- Personnel (e.g. project management, clinical project management,
Eligibility of costs, types
coordination and quality assurance);
and their caps
- case payments;
- patient and target group involvement;
- materials;- Fees and Insurance;
- Travel & networking costs;
- Communication, Dissemination and Publication costs;
- Overhead costs (“Projektpauschale”).
Overheads are eligible according to standard BMBF regulations.
Funding rates for universities, university hospitals and non-university
research institutes can be up to 100% of their costs.
Duration of the clinical
Up to 48 months
study
Specific rules for
Cost neutral runtime extensions can only be granted in exceptional cases.
potential extensions
Submission of the
proposal at the national On request in case of a positive funding recommendation.
level
Submission of other
information at the On request in case of a positive funding recommendation.
national level
Submission of financial
and scientific reports at On request in case of a positive funding recommendation.
the national level
Starting date of the
April 2026 (the earliest)
clinical study
Further guidance https://www.gesundheitsforschung-bmbf.de/de/18037.phpCountry Ireland
Funding organisation Health Research Board
Dr Karen Crowley
National contact
Dr Fiona Manning
person
Email: EUTrials@hrb.ie
Funding commitment €1,200,000 (inclusive of overhead contribution)
Anticipated number of
1-2
fundable proposals
Maximum funding is:
Up to €1,000,000 including overhead contribution of 30% of Total Direct
Maximum/ Minimum
Modified Costs (TDMC).
funding per grant
awarded to a clinical
Please see HRB’s dedicated scheme page on HRB’s funding page for
study partner
further Guidance and FAQ specific to applicants based in Ireland.
HRB will contract with a single Host Institution (Lead Applicant).
Additional national recruiting sites (associate partners) are permitted to
join the consortium. The Lead Applicant will be responsible for
appropriate distribution of funds to the associated partner(s) via
Funding mechanism
collaboration and/or consortium agreements.
The HRB does not have a limit on the number of associated partners
that will act as clinical study sites.
Lead Applicants (Principal Investigators) based in Ireland must be from a
recognised HRB Host Institution in the Republic of Ireland
(Policy on Approval of HRB Host Institutions).
Eligibility of partners Partners classed as ‘Enterprise’ cannot be in receipt of HRB funding.
Please see HRB’s dedicated scheme page on HRB’s funding page for
Guidance and FAQ specific to eligibility for applicants based in Ireland.
Funding available is inclusive of overheads and pension contributions
• Salary related costs
• Direct running costs, including patient-related costs and costs to support
interventional studies
• Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) costs
• Small equipment costs (€10,000)
Eligibility of costs, types
• Travel
and their caps
• FAIR data management costs
• Dissemination and knowledge exchange costs
For more information please see HRB’s guidance on the dedicated scheme
page on HRB’s funding page.
Duration of the clinical
48 months
study
Specific rules for
12-month no cost extension (NCE) permissible
potential extensionsSubmission of the
proposal at the national No additional requirements
level
Applicants will have to complete HRB’s Budget and Deliverables
Submission of other templates. These will be supplied after submission.
information at the
national level Applicants must submit a short information form at submission to provide
details on PI’s track record for eligibility checks.
HRB grant holders are required to submit grant reports as outlined in
their grant contracts and the most recent HRB General Terms and
Conditions for Research Awards.
For clinical trials or interventional studies, PIs are required to submit an
approvals package to confirm all ethical and regulatory approvals, and
Submission of financial
contractual agreements are in place before patient recruitment
and scientific reports at
commences. The PI must notify the HRB that the first patient first visit
the national level
(FPFV) has occurred and subsequently furnish a three-month recruitment
report. Thereafter, the PI must submit bi-annual progress reports for the
duration of the grant. Financial reports must be submitted annually. A
final report must be submitted at the end of the grant.
Starting date of the
Jan - May 2026
clinical study
All Irish partners who are undertaking interventional studies must adhere
to the HRB Clinical Trial and Interventions Research Governance Policy.
Further guidance
All applicants should contact the HRB with any queries regarding the
requirements of this policy.Country Israel
Funding organisation CSO-MOH
Dr. Irit Allon
irit.allon@moh.health.gov.il
+972 (0)2 5082167
National contact person
Netta Koren
netta.koren@moh.health.gov.il
+972 (0) 545889393
Funding commitment Up to 320,000 €, depending on budget availability
Anticipated number of
1-2
fundable proposals
Maximum/ Minimum
funding per grant
Up to 160,000 €
awarded to a clinical
study partner
All participating organisations will be granted and should be part of the
Funding mechanism clinical study consortium. A maximum of 3 partners are authorised.
Researchers will only be able to participate as partners in consortia.
Sponsors will be considered and approved only in exceptional cases
where funding is secured from other sources.
Position in a university, research center or hospital. Research authority
must approve position prior to submission.
Eligibility of partners
PI should hold a Ph.D., M.D., D.M.D., D. Sc or equivalent degree and
employed by an eligible institution. Research will not be funded
simultaneously by CSO-MOH on more than one grant (Era-NET or
national). Researchers can not apply for more than one grant from any
ERA-NET funded by CSO-MOH or submit more than one proposal for any
programme.
Materials and consumables; Travel and hosting (up to 5%); No salaries for
Eligibility of costs, types applicants; No heavy equipment,
and their caps
Institutional overhead 10%.
Duration of the clinical
Up to 4 years
study
Specific rules for
See national guidelines
potential extensions
Prior to submission, researchers will submit to CSO-MOH an abstract
Submission of the approved by their research authority including budget distribution. No
proposal at the national submission of abstract can result in declaration of the consortium as
level
ineligible.
Submission of other
Bioethics approvals must be submitted with the application or up to 4
information at the
months later.
national levelSubmission of financial
and scientific reports at Yes
the national level
Staring date of the
NA
clinical study
Please see detailed instructions of application at the national level and
Further guidance
reporting at http://www.health.gov.il/research-fundCountry Italy
Funding organisation Italian Ministry of Health (IT MoH)
Chiara Ciccarelli – c.ciccarelli@sanita.it
National contact
person
Francesca Turco – f.turco@sanita.it
Funding
€ 2.000.000,00
commitment
Anticipated number of
3
fundable proposals
Maximum/ Minimum
funding per grant
Max. € 650.000 per project
awarded to a clinical
study partner
Simultaneous PI participation in different 2025 JTCs funded by the
Ministry of Health is not allowed. No more than two Italian PIs (Principal
Investigators) are eligible to apply for the same project.
Italian PAOs can be funded as a sub-contractor of an IRCCS if they fulfil
Funding mechanism
the eligibility criteria of the EC. The maximum amount eligible for a sub-
contract is < 10% of the total budget (from the IRCCS Budget).
Italian PAOs can still participate in Consortia as “Collaborators” with
their own funds.
Only IRCCS (Istituti di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico)
Eligibility of partners
researchers are eligible to apply.
Direct Costs:
• Personnel (only temporary contracts or permanent contracts for
the amount of hours dedicated to the project, < 60%);
• Consumables/Supplies;
• Animals/Model costs;
• Equipment (only on leasing or rent);
Eligibility of costs,
types and their caps • Travel ( < 30%);
• Dissemination activities ( < 1%);
• Publication costs: < 2%; open access < 5%;
• Patients recruitment costs;
• IT Services and Data Bases;
• Coordination costsIndirect Costs:
• Overhead ( < 10%, included in the total);
Other indirect costs are not eligible.
Transfer of eligible funds abroad is not allowed.
Subcontracts are allowed only upon approval, by presenting via
Workflow – code ER, a request together with the National
preelegibility form, the latest 20 days before the deadline of the pre-
proposal submission.
Duration of the
Up to 48 months.
clinical study
Specific rules for
Max 1 year
potential extensions
In order to expedite the eligibility check process, the Ministry of Health
will grant an eligibility clearance to the applicant prior to the
submission of the proposals. To this end, it is mandatory that the
applicants fill out and return to the IT-MoH a pre-submission eligibility
check form through their IRCCS, using WFR System-> ER
Submission of the communication code, before submitting their proposal to the Joint Call
proposal at the Secretariat. It is strongly recommended that the form, completed and
national level duly signed, is returned at least 10 working days before the proposal
submission deadline. Applicants will be sent written notification of their
eligibility status. Changes in acronyms and budgets provided in the pre-
submission eligibility check are not allowed. The pre-eligibility form can
be downloaded here:
https://www.salute.gov.it/imgs/C_17_pagineAree_4441_0_file.pdf
Submission of other
information at the
national level
Submission of Submission of annual scientific and financial reports at the national
financial and level will be required according to the rules of the Ministry of Health
scientific reports at (Ricerca Finalizzata). Further information on the rules of the Ministry of
the national level Health can be requested to the national contact persons
Staring date of the
clinical study
Further guidanceCountry Latvia
Funding organisation Latvian Council of Science
Maija Bundule
E‐mail: Maija.Bundule@lzp.gov.lv
Tel: +371- 26514481
National contact person
Uldis Berkis
E-mail: Uldis.Berkis@lzp.gov.lv
Tel.: +371-29472349
Funding commitment 0,8M EUR
Anticipated number of
2
fundable proposals
Maximum funding for a funded partner is 100.000 EUR per year
Maximum/ Minimum Funding rates under Regulation EC 651/2014 shall be respected in case of
funding per grant state aid
awarded to a clinical Maximum 2 Latvian partners per proposal allowed, they must be fully
study partner independent on legal, financial and personnel basis
Maximum duration of a funded project – 4 years
The funded Latvian partner must be in possession of necessary resources,
and can use subcontracting up to the established maximum rate,
following the public procurement laws. Subcontracting shall not exceed
25% of the total direct costs. There are no exemptions to this rule.
Subcontracting to members of the consortium is not funded by LCS.
Funding mechanism
Maximum 2 funded Latvian partners per proposal allowed, they must be
fully independent on legal, financial and personnel basis.
Any kind of business enterprise can be supported only according to the
regulations for state aid. LCS is not using de-minimis aid.
Only the following legal persons are eligible:
1) Research institutions registered in the Latvian Registry of Scientific
Institutions, e.g.
- Research Institutes
- Universities
And must have the status of Research and knowledge dissemination
organization (Regulation EC 651/2014)
Eligibility of partners 2) Business enterprises entered into the Latvian Commercial registry as
companies, assumed they are eligible to do the specific research and have
specific capacity and resources to do the research in Latvia and have their
main activity in Latvia. Limitations of EU legislation apply (R651/2014)
together with financial reporting requirements, in this case this is state aid.
Two previous statements with sworn auditor’s approval should be provided
and they must reflect the correspondence to the regulation as well as prove
the evidence of previous scientific activity and presence of capacity.
Enterprises not having closed two annual financial periods are not eligible.
Eligibility of costs, types • Personnel costs incl. taxes;
and their caps • Consumables;• Subcontracts (up to 25% of direct costs), needs detailed
justification, includes all external services, project core activities
cannot be subcontracted;
• Equipment (only depreciation costs during project directly
attributable to project tasks);
• Replaceable and fully consumable during project elements
of equipment (e.g. electrodes);
• Travels (according to travel plan);
Indirect costs (up to 25% of direct costs excluding subcontracting).
Any type of clinical trials is experimental development according to the Art.
25 of the Regulation EC 651/2014. Therefore, maximum aid intensity
according to the part 4. of the aforementioned article is 25%. This value of
aid intensity can be increased by up to 25% if the conditions of part 6., (d)
are fulfilled. According to part 6. (a) aid intensity can be increased further by
10 percentage points for medium-sized enterprises and by 20 percentage
point for small enterprises. Total state aid intensity can not exceed 70% for
small enterprises, 60% for medium-sized and 50% for large enterprises
provided all requirements are fulfilled.
For pragmatic clinical trials the healthcare costs must be carried by the
national healthcare system. LCS funding is not allowed to create additional
demand in the healthcare system, nor to cover standard healthcare costs,
nor to reduce waiting lines. The funding for LCS is for the research going
outside of the normal healthcare services provided in the case of a specific
ailment.
LCS is not funding postmarket activities. LCS is not funding any activity
beyond experimental development.
Duration of the clinical
Maximum 4 years
study
Specific rules for
Extensions can be without funding only
potential extensions
Submission of the
proposal at the national Not at the application phase
level
Applicants for State aid must send before the call deadline (both 1st and
2nd stages) to the e-mail address lzp@lzp.gov. lv, stating the acronym
and the title of the project, applicant name and registration number, the
following document: a certification that the applying entity does not
correspond to the criteria laid down in laws and regulations to be subject
Submission of other
to insolvency proceedings at the request of the creditor. It must be
information at the
electronically signed by valid legal representative (s).
national level
Upon request applicants for State aid must provide all requested
documents to evaluate the financial situation and financial viability.
Undertakings in difficulty are not eligible for funding. (Regulation
651/2014)In case of State aid the undertakings are assessed for eligibility at each
of the application stages and at the conclusion and during execution of
the contract with LCS for project funding. If the eligibility criteria are not
fulfilled, project funding can not be approved or continued.
To receive funding by LCS, Consortium agreement duly signed should be
presented. Enterprises shall provide audited statements of 2 previous
closed financial periods on request.
Submission of financial
Final audit according to the LCS regulations.
and scientific reports at
the national level
Annual or in some cases half-annual financial and scientific reporting is
mandatory.
Staring date of the Application for the state aid must be submitted before the start of the
clinical study project which is stated in the consortium agreement
Support is provided according to Provisions Nr 259, 26.05.2015 of the
Latvian Cabinet of Ministers (http://likumi.lv/ta/id/274671-atbalsta-
pieskirsanas-kartiba-dalibaistarptautiskas-sadarbibas-programmas-
petniecibas-un-tehnologiju-joma)
These provisions should be respected without exceptions. The maximum
rates should respect the Provisions. The requirements in the provisions to
Further guidance
specific applicant groups must be respected.
LCS cannot fund implementation support, nor training activities.
LCS is funding only research
The project must respect national regulations for clinical trials, including
the biomedical ethics permission from an authorised ethical committee
for clinical trialsCountry Lithuania
Funding organisation Research Council of Lithuania
National contact person Živilė Ruželė
Funding commitment 1 Mln Eur
Anticipated number of
2
fundable proposals
Maximum/ Minimum
funding per grant Within a single project proposal, the maximum funding can be up to EUR 500
awarded to a clinical 000
study partner
only one organisation will be granted, and this organisation will establish
a collaboration with other recruitment sites via subcontracting or a
Funding mechanism collaboration agreement (as associated project partner, see section
“Eligibility of partners”)
Eligible for funding institutions are Lithuanian research and higher education
institutions that are included in the Register of Education and Research
institutions, public healthcare institutions, university hospitals. Eligible
beneficiary institution (grant holder) manages the state budget funds
allocated to the project following the rules stated in the legal acts, as well as
representing the associated project partners (if applicable ‘project partner’
means public or private legal entity that, together with the eligible
institution, created the conditions for project implementation).
Eligibility of partners Principal Investigator must be a PhD holder.
Principal investigators from Lithuania cannot be involved in more than 1 proposal
submitted to this call.
The beneficiary institution employs the principal investigator to work in the project
and his workload must be at least 20 hours multiplied by the number of months to
execute the project. Hourly rates approved by the Chairman of the Lithuanian
Research Council must be applied for the personnel costs. All other general rules
for competitive funding of Research Council of Lithuania apply:
https://www.e-tar.lt/portal/lt/legalAct/0a8bead0577611e9975f9c35aedfe438/asr
All costs mentioned in the Call text as Investigational costs are eligible: site
costs (personnel, clinical procedure, site services, patient/participant
renumeration), country management sites (site selection and coordination
at the country level), and clinical study management costs at national or
regional level (e.g. monitoring and insurance).
Additional cross-cutting trial management costs can also be eligible if some
Eligibility of costs, types of the sponsor’s tasks are delegated to Lithuanian team.
and their caps Only costs generated during the lifetime of the project, related to the
project, are eligible. Eligible cost types: personnel, consumables,
subcontracting, equipment and instruments, other direct costs, costs for
dissemination of results, data handling and analysis, overheads (up to 20 %
from direct costs).
More details about eligibility of costs: https://www.e-
tar.lt/portal/lt/legalAct/0a8bead0577611e9975f9c35aedfe438/asr
Duration of the clinical
48 Months
study
Specific rules for
During the implementation of the project, the reasoned amendments of the
potential extensions
agreement may be initiated, including extensions. Amendments to theagreement shall be made in accordance with the procedures and within the
time limits specified in the agreement.
Submission of the
proposal at the national The submission of the proposal at the national level is not required.
level
Following funding decision, grant signing institution and the PI must
complete and submit the national document (the template can be found
Submission of other
following this link) containing this information: more detailed planed
information at the
budget, foreseen dissemination and communication activities and expected
national level
outputs from clinical study results with the granted research team
contribution (scientific papers, patents, etc.)
Submission of financial
Midterm and final scientific reports nationally are required as well as the
and scientific reports at
yearly financial reports.
the national level
Starting date of the It must be in 2026, no later than the common start date of the study agreed
clinical study upon by the consortium partners.
For any information, please refer to contact person. All information about
the call is published on LMT website under Calls webpage.
Further guidance
General information for applicants submitting proposals to European
Partnerships calls can be found here.Norway
Country
The Research Council of Norway
Funding organisation
Henrietta Blankson
hbl@rcn.no
National contact person
tel : +47 92233762
900 000 EUR
Funding commitment Depending on the volume of submitted and eligible projects, up to 25 %
additional funding may be allocated to the call to fund additional projects
on the ranking list.
Anticipated number of
2-3
fundable proposals
Maximum/ Minimum Within a single project, the maximum funding can be up to 300 000 EUR. If
funding per grant the participant has a coordinator role, the maximum funding can be up to
awarded to a clinical 450 000 EUR.
study partner
Only one organisation will be granted, and this organisation will establish
a collaboration with other recruitment sites via subcontracting or a
Funding mechanism collaboration agreement.
Principal investigators must come from an approved Norwegian research
organization.
Eligibility of partners User/patient organizations may participate under the umbrella of the
principal investigator (with a collaboration agreement or subcontracting).
Payroll expenses, consumables, operating expenses, network measures.
PhD fellowships are not eligible within the RCN funding. For postdoctoral
fellowships, duration of the support is limited to a minimum of three years
Eligibility of costs, types and a maximum of four years. The overhead cost is included in the rates
and their caps for personnel.
For funded projects, the contractual budget will be in NOK using the
exchange rate (European Central Bank) from the pre-proposal deadline.
Duration of the clinical
Max 48 months
study
Specific rules for A cost-neutral extension based on a request with justification and an
potential extensions agreement in the whole project consortium may be considered.
Submission of the If the proposal is granted, information about national registration will be
proposal at the national given.
levelSubmission of other
information at the On request in case of a positive funding recommendation.
national level
Submission of financial
and scientific reports at On request in case of a positive funding recommendation.
the national level
Staring date of the
From January 2026
clinical study
For medical and health-related studies involving human participants, the
Research Council stipulates special requirements and guidelines for regis-
tration and disclosure of medical and health-related studies involving hu-
Further guidance
man participants.Poland
Country
National Centre for Research and Development (NCBR)
Funding organisation
Dr Marcin Chmielewski
T: +48 22 39 07 109
National contact person
M: +48 571 226 666
marcin.chmielewski@ncbr.gov.pl
2 500 000 EUR
Funding commitment
Anticipated number of 1-5
fundable proposals
Maximum/ Minimum
funding per grant Maximum 500 000 €
awarded to a clinical
study partner
Only one organisation will be granted and this organisation will establish
a collaboration with other recruitment sites via subcontracting or a
Funding mechanism
collaboration agreement.
Following entities are eligible to apply:
Research organization (research and knowledge-dissemination
organisations)1.
Eligibility of partners
Entities must be established as a legal person2 and must conduct its
business, R&D or any other activity on the territory of the Republic of
Poland, confirmed by an entry into the relevant register3.
The eligible costs shall be the following:
1. personnel costs
2. consumables
3. equipment
4. travel
5. other direct costs
Eligibility of costs, types 6. subcontracting - this cost type cannot account for more than 70% of all
and their caps
eligible costs of a project
7. additional overheads incurred indirectly as a result of the research
project; that costs are exactly 25% of eligible project costs and are counted
as a multiplication by percentage given above and the rest of direct costs,
excluding subcontracting (6); It means 7 = (1+2+3+4+5)*25%
1 Defined in Commission Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories
of aid compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty
(hereinafter referred to as “Commission Regulation (EU) No 651/2014”);
2 Legal person (juridical person) - an entity that is capable of having and amend legal rights and
obligations within a certain legal system, such as to enter into contracts, sue, and be sued, excluding
natural persons;
3 if applicable.Please refer to cost eligibility guide (przewodnik kwalifikowalności kosztów)
for details. Guide is available on the NCBR webpage:
https://www.gov.pl/web/ncbr
Research
organization
Fundamental/Basic
Not eligible
Research
Industrial/Applied
Not eligible
Research
Experimental
Up to 100 %
development
Please note that only Experimental Development will be funded.
Fundamental/Basic research or Industrial/Applied research are not eligible
for funding.
Duration of the clinical
Up to 48 months
study
Specific rules for
-
potential extensions
Submission of the Polish Participants will be informed and invited to submit Polish proposal
proposal at the national once the international evaluation and the ranking list will be established.
level
After international evaluation of full proposals and the selection of projects
to be funded, Polish participants will be invited to submit a National
Submission of other Application Form (NAF). The NAFs will be examined for the appropriateness
information at the of funding requested. The Polish participants are obliged to use the rate of
national level
exchange of the European Central Bank dated on the day of opening of the
call.
Submission of financial
Annual scientific reports are obligatory.
and scientific reports at
the national level
Staring date of the
clinical study
Sample documents are available at:
https://www.gov.pl/web/ncbr/wniosek-krajowy
We encourage you to learn about and use our "PartFinder" (Partner Search
Tool), which allows you to match science and industry entities from around
Further guidance the World with each other. The search engine is available at:
https://partfinder.ncbr.gov.pl/
Relevant documents:
All proposals must be aligned with national regulations, inter alia:• The Act of 20 July 2018 - Law on Higher Education and Science;
• The Act of 30 April 2010 on the National Centre for Research and
Development;
• The Regulation of the Minister of Science and Higher Education of 17
September 2010 on the detailed mode of performance of tasks of the
National Centre for Research and Development.Country Slovakia
Funding organisation Slovak Academy of Sciences (SAS)
Katarina BIBOVA
National contact bibova@up.upsav.sk
person Silvia KECEROVÁ
kecerova@up.upsav.sk
Funding commitment 240.000€
Anticipated number of
1
fundable proposals
Maximum/ Minimum
funding per grant
240.000€
awarded to a clinical
study partner
SAS allows the 1st funding mechanism, which means, that only one
organisation will be granted and this organisation will establish a
Funding mechanism collaboration with other recruitment sites via subcontracting or a
collaboration agreement.
Only research Institutes of the Slovak Academy of Sciences are eligible
Eligibility of partners organisations for funding by SAS (up to 100%). SAS can fund only Principal
Investigator (PI), not a Coordinating Investigator in this call.
Total eligible costs = Direct costs + Indirect costs (DC + IC)
• Direct costs (DC): Personnel (max. 15% of DC for the Project Partner)
• Consumables and Travel costs
Eligibility of costs, types
• Indirect costs (IC, Overheads): max. 20 % of DC.
and their caps
https://oms.sav.sk/wp-content/uploads/Financne-pravidla-na-udelovanie-
grantov-SAV-na-medzinarodne-vyskumne-projekty-platne-na-vyzvy-
zverejnene-od-1.12.2023.pdf
Duration of the clinical
48 months
study
If necessary, the possibility of a cost-neutral extension based on a
Specific rules for
request with justification and an agreement in the whole project
potential extensions
consortium.
Submission of the
proposal at the national No
level
Submission of the proposal at the national level will be required once the
international evaluation has taken place and the ranking list has been
endorsed by the Joint Call Steering Committee (CSC). The Slovak partner will
Submission of other be informed about recommendation for funding by the project consortium
information at the coordinator and invited by SAS to submit the national proposal form (MVTS
national level form). The Presidium of SAS makes the final decision concerning the approval
of funding (according to internal rules of SAS).
Resolution of the SAS Presidency no. 936. C.
Submission of financial
and scientific reports at On annual basis (financial and scientific)
the national levelStarting date of the Based on the agreement in the consortium in the consortium agreement
clinical study (CA)
133 Act of February 19, 2002 on the Slovak Academy of Sciences,
Further guidance Principles of allocation of funds for the institutes of SAS to support projects
in the field of international scientific cooperationCountry Spain
Funding organisation Institute of Health Carlos III (ISCIII)
Astrid Valencia Quiñónez / Sara García-Rodríguez
National contact
91 822 22 27 / 91 822 28 68
person
EffecTrial@isciii.es
Funding commitment 3.000.000,00 € (pending of approval of Spanish State Budget)
Anticipated number of
3-4
fundable proposals
PEICTI 2024-2027 “Líneas Estratégicas de Investigación en
National Programme
Salud”
Maximum funding from ISCIII per awarded Spanish project:
• If a Spanish Partner requesting funding to the ISCIII IS the
Coordinator (at international level) of the clinical study:
Max. 1.000.000,00 € per project.
• If a Spanish Partner requesting funding to the ISCIII IS NOT
Maximum/ Minimum
the Coordinator (at international level) of the clinical study:
funding per grant
Max. 750.000,00 € per project.
awarded to a clinical
study partner Overheads according to the national programme “Líneas
Estratégicas de Investigación en Salud” 2025: 25%
The level of funding will take into account the evaluation of the
collaborative proposal, the scientific quality of the Spanish
group, the added value of the international collaboration, and the
financial resources available.
Only ONE eligible partner (represented by one PI) can request
funds to ISCIII per consortium.
It can be a multicentric study but only with one beneficiary entity
requesting funds to ISCIII. The beneficiary entity must be the
Institution to which the PI belongs (according to the rules
Funding mechanism established by “Líneas Estratégicas de Investigación en Salud”
2025).
This partner will have the opportunity to establish a collaboration
agreement with other additional national recruiting sites and
allocate a budget to the recruitment sites. These additional
national recruiting sites need to be specified in the proposal.
The involvement of Spanish primary health care centers in the
Eligibility of partners
clinical studies is encouraged if relevant for the clinical research.Eligible Institutions:
- Accredited Health Research Institutes (Institutos de In-
vestigación Sanitaria acreditados, IIS). Accredited ac-
cording to the RD 279/2016 (These institutions may man-
age research via a foundation regulated according to the
Spanish Act 50/ 2002, of December 26th). See the list of
IIS in this link.
- Hospitals, primary health care or public health admin-
istration of the Spanish National Health System (SNS).
These institutions may manage research via a foundation
regulated in accordance to the Spanish Act 50/2002, of
December 26th (a copy of the foundation’s statutes may
be submitted).
- CIBER: Only one PI can be eligible by ISCIII per consor-
tium, fulfilling that the team members applying to the call
must be from at least two groups belonging to CIBER in
two different home institutions and one of these two
should be a hospital, primary health care or public health
administration of the Spanish National Health System
(SNS) or Accredited Health Research Institutes (Institutos
de Investigación Sanitaria acreditados, IIS). Please con-
tact CIBER (pai@ciberisciii.es) for more information re-
lated to CIBER’s eligibility.
- Public R&D Centres legally constituted on a mono-
graphic basis and which are exclusively working in the
field of the priority medical areas included in the call
(cardiovascular diseases, metabolic disorders, nutrition
and lifestyle-related diseases and non-communicable
respiratory diseases).
NOT eligible institutions:
- Applicants not related with the National Health System
from non-profit research organizations such Public Re-
search Institutions (OPIs) as defined in article 47 of Law
14/2011, of 1 June, in accordance with the provisions of
Royal Decree 202/2021, of 30th March and other public
R&D centers that are not monographic and exclusively
working in the field of the priority medical areas of the call,
private health entities and institutions and public and pri-
vate universities, technological centres and other pri-
vate non-profit institutions performing RDI activities in
Spain.- Those declared by “Líneas Estratégicas de Investigación
en Salud” 2025 as ineligible to receive funds by ISCIII.
• Principal Investigators (PI) shall mandatory have PhD de-
gree.
• Principal Investigators (PI) can only participate in one
project proposal per call.
• Principal Investigators (PIs) belonging to an Accredited
Health Research Institutes (IIS) could apply ONLY
from the IIS as applicant Institution.
• The Principal Investigator (PI) and all members of the re-
search group must belong to the eligible institutions in
the call.
Eligibility of PI and team • For additional incompatibilities please review “Líneas Es-
members tratégicas de Investigación en Salud” 2025.
Excluded personnel as Principal Investigator (PI):
• Those undergoing a postgraduate training in Health
Specialization (MIR, EIR, FIR, QIR, BIR, PIR, RFIR)
• Those undergoing research training (e.g. PhD students, or
“Río Hortega” contracts).
• Those undergoing postdoctoral training (e.g. “Sara Borrell” or
“Juan de la Cierva” contracts).
• Researchers contracted by a RICORs and platforms funded
by ISCIII.
- In case of a Spanish group coordinating at international
level the clinical trial and applying funding to ISCIII, it must
involve a member from their scientific node of the Spanish
Clinical Trials Network (SCReN) or if it does not exist, a
member from the personnel of their Clinical Research
Specific requirements Supporting Platform of their institutions (UIC).
for clinical studies
- In case of a Spanish group not coordinating at
international level the clinical trial and applying funding
to ISCIII, it is considered necessary and recommended to
involve a member from their scientific node of the Spanish
Clinical Trials Network (SCReN) or if it does not exist, a
member from the personnel of their Clinical Research
Supporting Platform of their institutions (UIC).• Personnel costs:
- Personnel costs will be eligible for contracts with the
needed professional category (superior technician, BSc
(grado), MSc (máster), PhD (doctor) for the project
development accordingly to the published salary tables in
ISCIII’s webpage / “Líneas Estratégicas de Investigación en
Salud” 2025. Personnel cost will precisely adhere to the
salary tables, no other amount will be considered, either
upper nor lower.
- Contracts for PhD students will be done in the framework of
National Subprogramme for Training (scholarships are not
eligible).
- Personnel costs will NOT be eligible when they correspond
to civil servants or the equivalent personnel (as specified in
the art. 3.4 of “Líneas Estratégicas de Investigación en
Salud” 2025) either employed by the beneficiary entities or
belonging to the research team.
- The hiring of permanent personnel already belonging to the
Eligibility of costs, beneficiary entity or members of the research team will not
types and their caps be considered eligible expenses, unless that applies the
exception stated in “Líneas Estratégicas de Investigación
en Salud” 2025 for eligible personnel costs, for contracts
framed under the Law 17/2022, 5 September, article 23bis
in the specified Entities of Public sector.
• Other eligible costs: Current costs, small scientific
equipment, disposable materials, travelling expenses,
complementary expenses (use of central and general
research support services of the beneficiary entity),
publication and dissemination of results, costs of external
service providers directly involved in the development of the
clinical study, specific clinical studies related costs (e.g.
administrative fees for civil responsibility insurance, taxes for
regulatory approvals, clinical study monitoring costs) and
other costs as included in “Líneas Estratégicas de
Investigación en Salud” 2025, that can be justified as
necessary to carry out the proposed activities.
• Overheads, according to “Líneas Estratégicas de
Investigación en Salud” 2025 (25%).
• Double funding of the same concept is not allowed.
Duration of the clinical
The initial duration of the clinical studies will be 48 months.
study
Potential extensions could be provided according to the national
Specific rules for
Regulation and “Líneas Estratégicas de Investigación en Salud”
potential extensions
2025.National phase: national applications will be required by ISCIII
to the full proposal applicants according to the timeline
established in “Líneas Estratégicas de Investigación en Salud”
2025.
Due to administrative and legal regulations, the Institute of
Health Carlos III establishes the 31st October 2025 as the
national deadline for the decision on fundable project consortia
which includes Spanish partners to be funded by ISCIII, which
must present their national application in the period stated in
“Líneas Estratégicas de Investigación en Salud” 2025.
Any concerned applicant in a proposal for which no final
decision has been made by the deadline of 31/10/2025, could
Submission of the be declared not fundable by ISCIII.
proposal at the national
level Submission of financial and scientific reports as specified by
the call text at international level and additionally at the national
level as specified by ISCIII’s instructions (please check ISCIII’s
webpage).
Additional clause regarding the available grant: After the
evaluation process, depending on its budgetary availability, of
the requested funding of the selected projects, and giving
priority to projects requesting funding from ISCIII, ISCIII and
other Spanish funding agencies may exchange applicants with
each other in order to optimize the available funds, provided
that the respective eligibility rules are met. Such applicants
must submit their application to the national phase of ISCIII, in
time and form.
As specified by “Líneas Estratégicas de Investigación en Salud”
2025.
Submission of other In order to expedite the eligibility check process, it is mandatory
information at the that all the applicants submit the CVA-ISCIII of the PI.
national level
This document shall be submitted by the PI by electronic email
before the pre-proposal submission deadline to:
EffecTrial@isciii.es
Submission of financial
As specified by ISCIII’s instructions (please check ISCIII’s
and scientific reports at
webpage).
the national level
The starting date of the grant for the clinical study will be
Starting date of the
established in the national grant resolution (most probably will
clinical study
be beginning of 2026).
Requirements on • Researchers funded by ISCIII must make public the human
data and genomic data, as well as relevant data (phenotype and
repositories exposition data) generated inside the funded project and willuse open access repositories. Researchers must also make
public all the necessary information for the interpretation of
these genomic data, including lab protocols, data instruments
survey tools. Regarding genomic data it is understood:
association of complete genomes (GWAS), matrixes of
polymorphism of a single nucleotide (SNP) and sequence of
genome, and transcriptomic, metagenomic, epigenomic and
gene expression data. The researchers whose projects are
funded by ISCIII are recommended to store their scientific data
at the "ELIXIR Core Data Resources", or if non-European
repositories or data bases are to be used they must be certified
by ELIXIR or the US National Center for Biotechnology
Information (NCBI).
• ISCIII may not fund any project that may require a repository
and/or a data base without a plan ensuring sustainability and
decommissioning after the end of funding
Researchers funded by ISCIII are encouraged to make use of the
Use of Research resources available through the European Research
infrastructures Infrastructures and the Spanish Platforms funded by ISCIII for
and platforms supporting the biomedical and health R&I.
Any publication, data base, product or event protected with IPR
or not, resulting from the granted project must acknowledge
“Award no. XX by Instituto de Salud Carlos III (ISCIII) through
“Líneas Estratégicas de Investigación en Salud” 2025 and within
Acknowledgements the ERA4Health Partnership” even after the end of the project,
including other specific acknowledgments that could be
requested by ISCIII to the granted project. For more information
please see ISCIII’s ROR here.Country Spain
Funding organisation Andalusian Regional Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs (CSCJA)
Alicia Milano Curto Tel: +34 955040450
National contact person
ep.fps@juntadeandalucia.es
Funding commitment 250.000€
Anticipated number of
1-2
fundable proposals
Maximum/ Minimum
funding per grant
125.000€, 250.000€ if coordinator (including 21% indirect costs)
awarded to a clinical
study partner
All participating organisations will be granted and should be part of the
Funding mechanism clinical study consortium. A maximum of 3 partners are authorised.
Eligible organisation must be Andalusian Non-profit entities registered as
Agents of the Andalusian Knowledge System (Registro de Agentes Andaluces
del Conocimiento) with research and innovation activity in Biomedicine and
Health Sciences, ie: Research managing foundations of the Andalusian Public
Health System.
Eligibility criteria established in Orden de 10 de agosto de 2023 de la
Consejería de Salud y Consumo de la Junta de Andalucía.
• Principal investigators must be linked through a civil servant, statutory or
labour relationship with the applicant or performing centre. For Health
Research Institutes (Institutos de Investigación Sanitaria, IIS), the link may
Eligibility of partners be with any of the public or private law entities that are part of the IIS
provided that the entity meets all the specific requirements determined in
each action, and, in any case, be personnel assigned to the IIS.
• More than one partner from Andalusia may participate in the same project
• A PI can only participate in one application per call.
• For receiving regional funding, the final funding decision issued by the
corresponding program's decision-making body must be accredited.
• The duration of the projects shall be determined by the corresponding JTC.
In any case, this period shall be stated in the award resolution.
a. Goods and services: consumables, bibliographic material, equipment
rentals, software licenses and external services.
b. Personnel costs: specifically hired for the project, including salaries,
employer Social Security contributions, legally established compensation
Eligibility of costs, types
and other duly justified expenses derived.
and their caps
c. Travel, accommodation and subsistence according to the maximum
amounts of compensation for service established in Decree 54/1989, of
March 21, on compensation for service of the Junta de Andalucía, exclusively
for people who are part of the research group or hired under the fundedproject. Exceptionally, any expense outside these amounts, or for people
other than those listed before, must be authorised by the granting body.
d. Registration fees for congresses or conferences for the presentation and
dissemination of the results. Publication costs
e. Other expenses duly justified and necessary for carrying out the project.
f. Indirect costs 21%
g. Subcontracting costs: cannot exceed 50% of the funding and need prior
authorization from the granting body. Nor Scientific aspects nor the
management of the project should be subcontracted.
The following are not considered eligible expenses
- Equipment or Equipment repair and maintenance
- Items or amounts that, after analysis, are not considered justified
- Amounts paid to persons participating in the project, except for expenses
necessary for special attention to patients that involve compensation for
their participation in the project not derived from an employment
relationship.
The sum of the funding or income received for the same purpose may in no
case exceed the cost of the funded activity.
Duration of the clinical The duration of the projects shall be determined by the corresponding
study Call. In any case, this period shall be stated in the award resolution
Specific rules for The maximum extension is limited to half of the initial duration of the
potential extensions project.
• The deadline for the submission of regional applications will be established
in the regional call and will be informed through the website of the Regional
Submission of the Ministry of Health and Consumer Affairs.
proposal at the national
level • Regional applications must be submitted to the General Secretariat of
Public Health and R&D&I in Health exclusively by telematic means (please
see section 10.c Orden de 10 de agosto de 2023)
• Beneficiaries must submit financial and scientific reports to Consejería de
Salud y Consumo de la Junta de Andalucía (please see section 22.b) 3º and
25.f) 1º Orden de 10 de agosto de 2023)
Submission of other
information at the • Additionally, for projects involving invasive procedures on human beings,
national level their biological material and/or clinical data, a favourable report or a
document accrediting the request for its evaluation by the Biomedical
Research Ethics Committee must be provided.The documents to be provided are detailed in section 14 of the Orden de 10
de agosto de 2023.
Submission of financial Beneficiaries must submit financial and scientific reports to Consejería
and scientific reports at de Salud y Consumo de la Junta de Andalucía (please see section 22.b) 3º
the national level and 25.f) 1º Orden de 10 de agosto de 2023)
Starting date of the
The starting date will be stated in the award resolution.
clinical study
The projects must respect the fundamental principles established in national
and international declarations, protocols and conventions on research
ethics, as well as respect the requirements established in national and
regional legislation in the field of biomedical research, development and
innovation, personal data protection and bioethics.
Further guidance
When the results are not susceptible to protection of industrial or
intellectual property rights, the scientific publications resulting from the
funding granted must be made available in open access, in accordance with
article 37 of Law 14/2011, of June 1.Joint Transnational Call Investigator-Initiated Clinical Studies (JTC
IICS) 2025
“Fostering Pragmatic Comparative-Effectiveness Trials in Non-communicable
Diseases”
(EffecTrial)
Guideline for applicants
DEADLINES
January 28th, 2025 (16:00, CET) - SUBMISSION OF PRE-PROPOSALS
June 17th, 2025 (16:00, CEST) - SUBMISSION OF INVITED FULL PROPOSALS
Link to the electronic proposal submission:
https://ptoutline.eu/app/EffecTrial
The submission system will be open by November 28th, 2024
For further information, please visit us on the website: https://era4health.eu/
or contact the Joint Call Secretariat (JCS):
Institute of Health Carlos III, Spain
Astrid Valencia Quiñónez / Sara García-Rodríguez
+34 918 222 227 / +34 918 222 868
EffecTrial@isciii.esHistory of modifications:
27/11/2024 :
- Updated information for HRB’s eligibility criteria regarding the Maximum/
Minimum funding per grant awarded to a clinical study partner.
- Updated information for FR-MOH’s eligibility criteria.
- Updated link to ERA4Health Deliverable for: “Organizations supporting
multicountry Investigator-initiated clinical studies”.
- Inclusion of the link to the electronic proposal submission (PT-Outline).
11/12/2024 :
- Updated information for FR-MOH’s eligibility criteria.
2Content
General ....................................................................................................................................... 4
Eligibility ...................................................................................................................................... 4
Composition of the consortium .................................................................................................. 6
Example of consortia: ............................................................................................................. 9
Smallest consortia: .......................................................................................................................... 9
Larger consortia: .............................................................................................................................. 9
Funding mechanism .................................................................................................................. 10
Example of a requested budget for a consortium: .............................................................. 16
Duration and start date of the IICS ........................................................................................... 17
APPENDIX RESOURCES, USEFUL LINKS ..................................................................................... 18
1. Study design ..................................................................................................................... 18
2. Patient engagement ......................................................................................................... 19
ERA4Health Responsible Research and Innovation (RRI) Guidelines ........................................ 19
3General
This call uses a two-step submission procedure (pre-proposals and full proposals), including a rebuttal
stage and an online interview.
All proposals must be written in English and submitted exclusively by using the PT-Outline electronic
submission system, and this before January 28th, 2025 for the pre-proposals and before the June 17th,
2025 for the full proposals.
It is recommended to carefully read the call text and the guidelines for applicants prior to starting an
application.
Eligibility
Before being included in a consortium, all Principal Investigators should self-assure that her/his
organisation is eligible for funding by one of the funding organisations participating in the call. All
funding rules from a specific funding organisation are available in the Annex I of the call text. Here we
will present the Eligible Partners for the different funding organisations to have an overview of country
for a specific rule.
The below table shows the eligibility of partners for each funding organization participating to the call:
Country Funding Eligibility of Partners
Organisation
Austria FWF The proposed research must be carried out in Austria under the
auspices of the Austrian lead research institution The principal
investigator must be employed at the Austrian research institution
applying for funding at the time the project is scheduled to begin.
All Austrian research institutions are eligible to apply if they are
registered in the FWF's research institution portal. Applications are
to be submitted by the research institution where the project is to be
carried out. Neither a specific academic degree nor Austrian
citizenship is required to act as principal investigator. The principal
investigator must, however, have appropriate scientific
qualifications (see
section 1.4) and sufficient time resources to carry out the proposed
research. The research institution must provide the necessary
infrastructure.
Please refer to the general FWF Application Guidelines and the
respective Application and project number limit
Czech Republic MZCR /AZVCR Research Organisations, Enterprises. All eligibility rules and
criteria can be found on the Czech Health Research website (AZV
ČR – Agentura pro zdravotnický výzkum České republiky
(azvcr.cz). It is recommended to contact the responsible person at
the Czech Health Research Council (prior to submission regarding
the eligibility criteria).
France Fr-MoH Eligible institutions: French ministry of Health (Fr MoH) funds
French healthcare institutions defined by public health regulation
articles L.611-1 and further, L.6141-1 and further, L6161-1 and
further (établissements de santé), L6133-1 to 8 (groupements de
coopération sanitaire), L6323-3 (maisons de santé) and L6323-1
(centres de santé) of the Code de la Santé Publique.
4A partner must be composed of a physical leader and of a health
care institution, which manages the financing.
The physical leader must be contractually linked to a healthcare
institution and get its approval to be part of the project. For example,
leaders can be private health professionals if they have a binding
agreement with a French healthcare institution.
Minimum funding per awarded to a partner: 10 000 €
Fr MoH will avoid double funding and will not finance projects or
parts of projects that have been funded through other calls.
Germany BMBF/DLR Eligible applicants are researchers or research groups from German
universities, German university hospitals and German non-
university research institutes. Enterprises in the commercial sector
are only eligible to apply in exceptional cases if they are also a
healthcare organisation. For specific conditions see also link to
German version of the call below.
Only consortia whose research question includes at least the use of
one nutrition and/or lifestyle interventions are eligible for funding
from BMBF/DLR-PT. The comparison of e.g. two pharmacological
interventions cannot be funded by BMBF/DLR-PT. Please note that
dietary supplements in pharmacological doses are not considered a
nutrition intervention.
Prior the submitting of the proposal, it is highly recommended to
get in touch with the national contact persons to clarify the specific
requirements of this call.
Ireland HRB Lead Applicants (Principal Investigators) based in Ireland must be
from a recognised HRB Host Institution in the Republic of Ireland
(Policy on Approval of HRB Host Institutions).
Partners classed as ‘Enterprise’ cannot be in receipt of HRB
funding.
Please see HRB’s dedicated scheme page on HRB’s funding page
for Guidance and FAQ specific to eligibility for applicants based in
Ireland.
Israel CSO-MOH Researchers will only be able to participate as partners in consortia.
Sponsors will be considered and approved only in exceptional cases
where funding is secured from other sources.
Position in a university, research center or hospital. Research
authority must approve position prior to submission.
PI should hold a Ph.D., M.D., D.M.D., D. Sc or equivalent degree
and employed by an eligible institution. Research will not be funded
simultaneously by CSO-MOH on more than one grant (Era-NET or
national). Researchers can not apply for more than one grant from
any ERA-NET funded by CSO-MOH or submit more than one
proposal for any programme.
Italy IT MOH Only IRCCS (Istituti di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico)
researchers are eligible to apply. (Further details in Annex I)
Latvia LCS Only the following legal persons are eligible:
1) Research institutions registered in the Latvian Registry of
Scientific Institutions, (e.g. Research Institutes, Universities)
And must have the status of Research and knowledge dissemination
organization (Regulation EC 651/2014)
2) Business enterprises entered into the Latvian Commercial
registry as companies, assumed they are eligible to do the specific
5research and have specific capacity and resources to do the research
in Latvia and have their main activity in Latvia.
(Further details in Annex I)
Lithuania LMT Eligible for funding institutions are Lithuanian research and higher
education institutions that are included in the Register of Education
and Research institutions, public healthcare institutions, university
hospitals. (Further details in Annex I)
Norway RCN Principal investigators must come from an approved Norwegian
research organization.
User/patient organizations may participate under the umbrella of the
principal investigator (with a collaboration agreement or
subcontracting).
Poland NCBR Research organization (research and knowledge-dissemination
organisations). Entities must be established as a legal person and
must conduct its business, R&D or any other activity on the territory
of the Republic of Poland, confirmed by an entry into the relevant
register. (Further details in Annex I)
Slovakia SAS Only research Institutes of the Slovak Academy of Sciences are
eligible organisations for funding by SAS (up to 100%). SAS can
fund only Principal Investigator (PI), not a Coordinating
Investigator in this call.
Spain ISCIII Eligible Institutions :
- Accredited Health Research Institutes
- Hospitals, primary health care or public health administration of
the Spanish National Health System (SNS).
- CIBER
- Monographic public R&D Centres, exclusively working in the
field of the priority medical areas included in the call
Principal Investigators (PI) shall mandatory have PhD degree.
Principal Investigators (PI) can only participate in one project
proposal per call.
(Further details about eligibility of partners and eligibility of PIs in
Annex I)
Spain CSCJA Eligible organisation must be Andalusian Non-profit entities
registered as Agents of the Andalusian Knowledge System with
research and innovation activity in Biomedicine and Health
Sciences. (Further details and eligibility of PIs in Annex I)
Composition of the consortium
Each consortium should have a coordinator, and he/she will be the unique contact point of the
ERA4Health Joint Call Secretariat during the application process.
The maximum size of the consortium is detailed in the Call Text and examples are given below.
The consortium should include only one main partner/organisation eligible by each national/regional
funding organisation. Then this partner/organisation will coordinate additional recruiting sites at
national/regional level via subcontracting or collaboration agreements (see table for the possibility
offered by each funding organisation). These additional recruiting sites do not receive funding directly
from the funding organization, but from the main partner. In case of issues regarding the
6patient/participant recruitment during the runtime of the clinical study, these additional recruiting
sites could be substituted by different ones if it is possible under the national/regional regulations of
the respective national funding agency for that specific partner. This could allow flexibility in
opening/closing the recruitment sites during the clinical study.
An exception exists for the following funder(s): CSO-MOH, IT-MOH, LCS and CSCJA. For FWF both
options are possible.
In this case, the consortium can include a maximum of 3 national/regional partners eligible by each of
those funding organisation(s) (Check Annex I for specific national/regional regulation). The funding
organisations will fund the 2 or max. 3 national/regional partners directly and there will be no
subcontracting or collaboration agreements between them.
The below table shows the requirement by each funding organization participating to the call:
Country Funding Funds one partner or If one partner is funded this type of
organisation several partners per agreement/contract need to be
consortium established
Austria FWF For the FWF, both options
are theoretically possible:
- All participating
organisations will be granted
and should be part of the
clinical study consortium. A
maximum of 3 partners are
authorised.
- Or only one organisation
will be granted and this
organisation will establish a
collaboration with other
recruitment sites via
subcontracting or a
collaboration agreement.
Please contact the FWF
office for a detailed
clarification which approach
would be the most
appropriate for your
proposal.
Czech MZCR /AZVCR Only one organisation will be This organisation will establish a
Republic granted collaboration with other recruitment sites
via subcontracting or a collaboration
agreement
France Fr-MoH Only one organisation will be This organisation will establish a
granted collaboration with other recruitment sites
via subcontracting or a collaboration
agreement.
Germany BMBF/DLR Only one German partner per This organisation will establish a
proposal will be granted collaboration with other German
recruitment sites via case payments based
on collaboration agreements.
Ireland HRB HRB will contract with a Additional national recruiting sites
single Host Institution (Lead (associate partners) are permitted to join
Applicant). the consortium. The Lead Applicant will
7be responsible for appropriate distribution
of funds to the associated partner(s) via
collaboration and/or consortium
agreements.
Israel CSO-MOH All participating
organisations will be granted
and should be part of the
clinical study consortium. A
maximum of 3 partners are
authorised.
Italy IT MOH Simultaneous PI
participation in different
2025 JTCs funded by the
Ministry of Health is not
allowed.
No more than two Italian PIs
(Principal Investigators) are
eligible to apply for the
same project.
Italian PAOs can be funded
as a sub-contractor of an
IRCCS if they fulfil the
eligibility criteria of the EC.
Latvia LCS Maximum 2 funded Latvian
partners per
proposal allowed, they must
be fully independent on legal,
financial and personnel basis.
Lithuania LMT Only one organisation will be This organisation will establish a
granted collaboration with other recruitment sites
via subcontracting or a collaboration
agreement.
Norway RCN Only one organisation will be This organisation will establish a
granted collaboration with other recruitment sites
via subcontracting or a collaboration
agreement.
Poland NCBR Only one organisation will be This organisation will establish a
granted collaboration with other recruitment sites
via subcontracting or a collaboration
agreement.
Slovakia SAS Only one organisation will be This organisation will establish a
granted collaboration with other recruitment sites
via subcontracting or a collaboration
agreement.
Spain ISCIII Only one eligible partner will Collaboration agreements with other
be granted additional national recruiting sites
Spain CSCJA All participating
organisations will be granted
and should be part of the
clinical study consortium. A
maximum of 3 partners are
authorised.
8The consortium can have a maximum of 3 self-funded collaborators. Those collaborators can be patient
organisations, enterprises or other entities with different roles, e.g. drug provider, an important
stakeholder to implement the outcomes of the clinical study at its term.
Example of consortia:
Smallest consortia:
Consortium 1: the funding organisations involved are funding each one a single partner, who will
establish collaboration agreements with additional national recruitment sites.
Partner A from country 1 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Partner B from country 2 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Partner C from country 3 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Consortium 2: in this case one of the funding organisation should grant several partners within the
same consortium:
Partner A from country 1 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Partner B from country 2 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Partner C from country 3 (no possibility to be supported by additional recruitment sites, since the
funding organization does not allow the establishment of a collaboration agreement with other
national recruitment sites, additional recruiting sites will be added as additional partner for this
country)
Partner D from country 3 (no possibility to be supported by additional recruitment sites, since the
funding organization does not allow the establishment of a collaboration agreement with other
national recruitment sites, additional recruiting sites will be added as additional partner for this
country)
Partner E from country 3 (no possibility to be supported by additional recruitment sites, since the
funding organization does not allow the establishment of a collaboration agreement with other
national recruitment sites, additional recruiting sites will be added as additional partner for this
country)
Larger consortia:
Consortium 1: the funding organisations involved are funding each one a single partner, who will
establish collaboration agreements with additional national recruitment sites.
Partner A from country 1 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Partner B from country 2 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Partner C from country 3 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Partner D from funder X in country 4 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Partner E from funder Z in country 4 (Supported by additional recruitment sites), here the partner D
and partner E are eligible by different funding organisations from country 4; it can be regional and
national funding organisations.
Partner F from country 5 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
9Partner G from country 6 (Supported by additional recruitment sites), belonging to the list of countries
that allow an additional partner
Partner H from country 7 (Supported by additional recruitment sites), belonging to the list of countries
that allow an additional partner
Collaborator 1
Collaborator 2
Collaborator 3
Consortium 2: in this case, one of the funding organisation should grant several partners within the
same consortium:
Partner A from country 1 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Partner B from country 2 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Partner C from country 3 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Partner D from country 4
Partner E from country 4
Partner F from country 4 (Since the funding organisation of country 4 does not allow the establishment
of collaboration agreements with other national recruiting sites, there can be 3 partners from country
4: D, E, and F)
Partner G from funder X in country 5 (Supported by additional recruitment sites)
Partner H from funder Z in country 5 (Supported by additional recruitment sites), here the partner G
and partner H are eligible by different funding organisations from country 5; it can be a regional and a
national funding organisations
Partner I from country 6 (Supported by additional recruitment sites), belonging to the list of countries
that allow an additional partner
Partner J from country 7 (Supported by additional recruitment sites), belonging to the list of countries
that allow an additional partner
Collaborator 1
Collaborator 2
Collaborator 3
These are examples of potential large consortia, but the consortia could be even larger. In the last
example, in case that funders from country 1, 2 and 3 do not allow the establishment of collaboration
agreements with other national recruiting sites, there could exist up to 3 maximum partners from each
of those countries (1, 2 and 3) in the same consortia.
Funding mechanism
This funding mechanism is a pilot scheme and demands special attention from the applicants.
The clinical study tasks are composed of two different types of costs:
• Investigational costs covered by each country/region: site costs (personnel, clinical procedure,
site services, patient/participant renumeration), country management sites (site selection and
coordination at the country level), and clinical study management costs at national or regional
level (e.g. monitoring and insurance).
10The investigational costs should be requested to the national/regional funding organisations
by only one eligible partner or a maximum of 3 partners in the same region/country according
to the mode of funding of the specific funding organisation (see section “composition of the
consortium” above). The requested funds and the eligible costs are the following for the
funding organisations participating to the call (see below table).
Country Funding Maximum/ Eligibility of costs, types and their caps
organisation Minimum funding
per grant awarded
to a clinical study
partner
Austria FWF Austrian Project-specific costs are eligible for funding.
participations are These include personnel and non-personnel
expected not to costs that are needed to carry out the project
exceed the average and that are not included in the infrastructure
range of an FWF provided by the research institution. The FWF
stand-alone Project does not finance the infrastructure or basic
(typically € 300.000 equipment of research institutions.
to €450.000 ). The current FWF Personnel Costs and Salary
Rates scale indicates the salaries that may be
requested. The FWF grants an annual salary
adjustment to compensate for inflation, which
is applied automatically to all contracts of
employment in Principal Investigator projects
that are valid when the adjustment takes effect.
Please refer to the FWF Application Guidelines
Czech MZCR /AZVCR The maximum All eligibility of costs, types and their caps can
Republic funding per grant be found on the Czech Health Research website
awarded to a clinical (AZV ČR – Agentura pro zdravotnický
study partner is výzkum České republiky (azvcr.cz)). It is
250,000 EUR. recommended to contact the responsible
person at the Czech Health Research Council
prior to submission regarding the eligibility
criteria.
France Fr-MoH 700.000 € Maximum Funds are reserved for the exclusive use of
French healthcare institutions involved in the
project. Transfer for part of these funds to other
French structures, organisations or physical or
legal person may be allowed provided they are
not eligible for funding by another financing
body of the partnership. The healthcare
institution would also have to demonstrate that
they do not have the necessary skills. If so,
public tenders rules including call of bides
applies.
Investment expenses giving rise to depreciation
are not eligible.
Management costs up to 10% of personal
expenses are eligible.
Germany BMBF/DLR Up to 350.000 € for The following costs are eligible for funding
regular German (details see German version of the call):
partners; up to
500.000 € for German
11partners in the role of - Personnel (e.g. project management, clinical
the sponsor (overhead project management, coordination and quality
costs included). assurance);
- case payments;
- patient and target group involvement;
- materials;
- Fees and Insurance;
- Travel & networking costs;
- Communication, Dissemination and
Publication costs;
- Overhead costs (“Projektpauschale”).
Overheads are eligible according to standard
BMBF regulations.
Funding rates for universities, university
hospitals and non-university research institutes
can be up to 100% of their costs.
Ireland HRB Up to €1,000,000 Funding available is inclusive of overheads and
including overhead pension contributions
contribution of 30% • Salary related costs
of Total Direct • Direct running costs, including patient-
Modified Costs related costs and costs to support
(TDMC). interventional studies
• Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) costs
• Small equipment costs (€10,000)
• Travel
• FAIR data management costs
• Dissemination and knowledge exchange
costs
For more information please see HRB’s
guidance on the dedicated scheme page on
HRB’s funding page.
Israel CSO-MOH Up to 160,000 € Materials and consumables; Travel and hosting
(up to 5%); No salaries for applicants; No
heavy equipment,
Institutional overhead 10%.
Italy IT MOH Direct Costs:
Max. € 650.000 per •Personnel (only temporary contracts or
project permanent contracts for the amount of hours
dedicated to the project, < 60%);
•Consumables/Supplies;
•Animals/Model costs;
•Equipment (only on leasing or rent);
•Travel ( < 30%);
•Dissemination activities ( < 1%);
•Publication costs: < 2%; open access < 5%;
•Patients recruitment costs;
•IT Services and Data Bases;
•Coordination costs
Indirect Costs:
• Overhead ( < 10%, included in the total)
(Further details in Annex I)
Latvia LCS Maximum funding for • Personnel costs incl. taxes;
a funded partner is • Consumables;
100.000 EUR per • Subcontracts (up to 25% of direct costs),
year needs detailed justification, includes all
external services, project core activities cannot
be subcontracted;
• Equipment (only depreciation costs during
project directly attributable to project tasks);
12• Replaceable and fully consumable during
project elements of equipment (e.g.
electrodes);
• Travels (according to travel plan);
Indirect costs (up to 25% of direct costs
excluding subcontracting).
For pragmatic clinical trials the healthcare
costs must be carried by the national healthcare
system. LCS funding is not allowed to create
additional demand in the healthcare system,
nor to cover standard healthcare costs, nor to
reduce waiting lines. The funding for LCS is
for the research going outside of the normal
healthcare services provided in the case of a
specific ailment.
LCS is not funding postmarket activities. LCS
is not funding any activity beyond
experimental development.
(Further details in Annex I)
Lithuania LMT Maximum 500.000€ Investigational costs are eligible: site costs
per project (personnel, clinical procedure, site services,
patient/participant renumeration), country
management sites (site selection and
coordination at the country level), and clinical
study management costs at national or regional
level (e.g. monitoring and insurance).
Additional cross-cutting trial management
costs can also be eligible if some of the
sponsor’s tasks are delegated to Lithuanian
team.
Only costs generated during the lifetime of the
project, related to the project, are eligible.
Eligible cost types: personnel, consumables,
subcontracting, equipment and instruments,
other direct costs, costs for dissemination of
results, data handling and analysis, overheads
(up to 20 % from direct costs).
(Further details in Annex I)
Norway RCN Within a single Payroll expenses, consumables, operating
project, the maximum expenses, network measures.
funding can be up to
300 000 EUR. If the PhD fellowships are not eligible within the
participant has a RCN funding. For postdoctoral fellowships,
coordinator role, the duration of the support is limited to a minimum
maximum funding of three years and a maximum of four years.
can be up to 450 000 The overhead cost is included in the rates for
EUR. personnel.
For funded projects, the contractual budget will
be in NOK using the exchange rate (European
Central Bank) from the pre-proposal deadline.
Poland NCBR Maximum 500 000 € 1. personnel costs
2. consumables
3. equipment
4. travel
5. other direct costs
6. subcontracting - this cost type cannot
account for more than 70% of all eligible costs
of a project
137. additional overheads incurred indirectly as a
result of the research project; that costs are
exactly 25% of eligible project costs (Further
details in Annex I)
Slovakia SAS Max. 240.000€ Total eligible costs = Direct costs + Indirect
costs (DC + IC)
• Direct costs (DC): Personnel (max. 15%
of DC for the Project Partner)
• Consumables and Travel costs
• Indirect costs (IC, Overheads): max. 20
% of DC.
https://oms.sav.sk/wp-
content/uploads/Financne-pravidla-na-
udelovanie-grantov-SAV-na-medzinarodne-
vyskumne-projekty-platne-na-vyzvy-
zverejnene-od-1.12.2023.pdf
Spain ISCIII - Max.
1.000.000,00 € • Personnel costs (see Annex I for details).
per project (if • Other eligible costs: Current costs, small
coordinator) scientific equipment, disposable materials,
- Max. 750.000,00 € travelling expenses, complementary expenses
per project (if not (use of central and general research support
coordinator) services of the beneficiary entity), publication
(Including and dissemination of results, costs of external
overheads) service providers directly involved in the
development of the clinical study, specific
clinical studies related costs (e.g.
administrative fees for civil responsibility
insurance, taxes for regulatory approvals,
clinical study monitoring costs) and other
costs as included in “Líneas Estratégicas de
Investigación en Salud” 2025, that can be
justified as necessary to carry out the
proposed activities.
• Overheads, according to “Líneas Estratégicas
de Investigación en Salud” 2025 (25%).
• Double funding of the same concept is not
allowed.
(Further details in Annex I)
Spain CSCJA -Max 125.000€ (if a. Goods and services.
not coordinator) b. Personnel costs
-Max. 250.000€ if c.Travel, accommodation and subsistence
coordinator d. Registration fees for congresses or
(including 21% conferences for the presentation and
indirect costs) dissemination of the results. Publication costs
e.Other expenses duly justified and necessary
for carrying out the project.
f. Indirect costs 21%
g. Subcontracting costs
(Further details in Annex I)
Each project partner must oversee the budgeting of their planned tasks.
• Cross-cutting trial management costs for the whole consortium: Intervention/study drug, trial
authorization, data collection and management, statistical analysis, safety, study design and
protocol development, and the overall management activities.
• To facilitate the multinational trial management tasks, ERA4Health offers trials management
services performed by ECRIN (or by an entity directly subcontracted by ECRIN, in the case that
ECRIN cannot provide these services). Only if this option is used, a top-up budget, up to 15%
14of the budget requested to national/regional funders, will be directly allocated to ECRIN to
perform cross-cutting trial management activities.
• The management costs associated to these cross-cutting activities should indeed be requested
in a different way so that the whole consortium can benefit from these funds, since those costs
concern all the partners involved. In addition, this system will reduce the administrative
burden for the coordinator. To benefit from this additional budget (up to 15%), the consortium
should indicate in the proposal template that they wish that ECRIN (or an entity subcontracted
by ECRIN) acts as service provider for those cross-cutting activities. If this additional budget is
requested in the proposal, the consortium shall closely collaborate with ECRIN during the full
proposal phase to define the details of the service provision (either directly performed by
ECRIN or by an entity subcontracted by ECRIN, in the case that ECRIN cannot provide these
services).
Figure 1: funding mechanisms. Plain arrows show the transfer of money and the two parallel arrows
the exchange of information. The service provider costs of the crosscutting trial management activities
performed by ECRIN will be requested as described in the example below.
15Example of a requested budget for a consortium:
In this example, the partners from three different countries composed the consortium. The funders of
two countries are funding one unique partners whereas the funder of the third country will fund
multiple partners.
The requested amount for each partner is the following one:
Partners Total requested budget € Total cost of the project €
Partner A (Coordinator) requested 1 201 534 1 400 364
funding to country 1
Partner B requested funding to country 645 945 645 945
2
Partner C requested funding to country 320 000 320 000
3
Partner D requested funding to country 153 800 230 432
3
Partner E requested funding to country 260 380 260 380
3
Total for the consortium 2 581 659 2 857 121
Such a table is not requested in the proposal, it is just used as an example for the explanation of the
budget. The total costs include the requested budget to the funding organisations and the in-kind
contribution of the different partners.
In addition of the budget requested to the three different funding organisations, additional 15% of the
total requested budget by the whole consortium can be requested for the management costs required
for the whole consortium only if ECRIN is selected as service provider of the cross-cutting activities. In
this example: 15% * 2 581 659 = 387 248 €
In the example, the consortium decides in close collaboration which ECRIN which services will be
provided directly by ECRIN and which other entity (xxx) can be subcontracted by ECRIN to act as service
provider as displayed in the below table (requested in the full proposal).
Service Provider Amount (<15% of Justification
total requested
budget)
ECRIN 213 594 € management, regulatory submission, data
management and statistics, safety
xxx 173 654 € Monitoring
ATTENTION: The cost requested for hiring ECRIN (or an entity directly subcontracted by ECRIN) as
service provider for the research consortia should not overlap with the costs requested to the different
national/regional funding organisations.
16Duration and start date of the IICS
The duration of an IICS will be up to 48 months.
The starting date of the IICS can be different from one funding organisation to the other one. The
below table summarise the conditions for the different funding organisations.
Country Funding Duration of the Starting date Possibility for
organisation IICS potential extension
Austria FWF A maximum of 48 The FWF expects the A cost-neutral
months. start of the project extension of up to 12
within six months from months is possible
the date of of approval and must be applied
notification. for at the FWF before
Any further delays of the official end date of
up to 12 months after the project.
notification must be
justified, otherwise the
funding approval may
be rescinded.
Czech MZCR 48 months In line with the start An optional cost-
Republic /AZVCR date of the project as neutral extension of 1
stated in the “Contract” year if needed
or “Decision” on the
provision of support or
the issuance of a
decision.
France Fr-MoH 48 months The project begins as Extension is not
soon as possible after automatic. A report
the results of the Call explaining the project
have been confirmed. extension request
The official project must be submitted to
start date must be the FR MOH with all
communicated to the supporting
FR MOH by the documents at least 6
funded institution as months before the
soon as it is known. project end date. The
extension may not
exceed 1 year and
cannot give rise to
additional funding
payments. The
extension cannot
exceed the end date
of the partnership.
Germany BMBF/DLR Up to 48 months April 2026 (the earliest) Cost neutral runtime
extensions can only
be granted in
exceptional cases.
Ireland HRB 48 months Jan - May 2026 12-month no cost
extension (NCE)
permissible
Israel CSO-MOH Up to 48 months Not specified See national
guidelines
Italy IT MOH Up to 48 months Not specified Max 1 year
Latvia LCS Up to 48 months Application for the state Extensions can be
aid must be submitted without funding only
before the start of the
17project which is stated
in the consortium
agreement
Lithuania LMT 48 Months It must be in 2026, no Reasoned
later than the common amendments to the
start date of the study agreement, including
agreed upon by the extensions shall be
consortium partners. made in accordance
with the procedures
and within the time
limits specified in the
agreement.
Norway RCN Max 48 months From January 2026 A cost-neutral
extension based on a
request with
justification and an
agreement in the
whole project
consortium may be
considered.
Poland NCBR Up to 48 months Not specified Not specified
Slovakia SAS 48 months Based on the If necessary, the
agreement in the possibility of a cost-
consortium in the neutral extension
consortium agreement based on a request
(CA) with justification and
an agreement in the
whole project
consortium.
Spain ISCIII 48 months Established in the Potentially cost-
national grant neutral extensions
resolution (probably could be provided,
beginning of 2026) according to national
regulation.
Spain CSCJA The duration of the The starting date will The maximum
projects shall be be stated in the award extension is limited
determined by the resolution. to half of the initial
corresponding Call. duration of the
In any case, this project.
period shall be
stated in the award
resolution:
APPENDIX
RESOURCES, USEFUL LINKS
1. Study design
• SPIRIT STATEMENT (Standard Protocol Items)
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23295957/
• SPIRIT PRO Extension for inclusion of patient-reported outcomes in clinical trials protocols
https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/article-abstract/2671472
• ICH General considerations for clinical studies E8
18https://database.ich.org/sites/default/files/E8_Guideline.pdf
• ICH General principles for planning and design of multi-regional clinical trials
https://database.ich.org/sites/default/files/E17EWG_Step4_2017_1116.pdf
• COMET: Core outcome measures in effectiveness trials
https://www.comet-initiative.org/
• COSMIN: Database of systematic reviews of outcome measurement instruments
https://database.cosmin.nl/
2. Patient engagement
• EUPATI CONNECT
https://connect.eupati.eu/
• European YPAG Network
https://eypagnet.eu/services/
3. Reporting
• CONSORT statement
https://legacyfileshare.elsevier.com/promis_misc/CONSORT-2010-Checklist.pdf
https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2799401
4. Organizations supporting multicountry Investigator-initiated clinical studies
https://era4health.eu/results/docs/D131.pdf
ERA4Health Responsible Research and Innovation (RRI) Guidelines
What is RRI and why do we need it?
Health research and innovation is crucial for maintaining and improving European public health. In this
context, it is easy to acknowledge that science is not separate from society but part of it, which confers
an important social responsibility on science. It is important, therefore, that funders, researchers and
other key groups involved in the development of science, technology and innovation think about: (i)
the potential directions of research being taken; (ii) who might benefit from new research and
inventions and who might not; and (iii) how consideration of the potential social, environmental and
ethical issues can be considered throughout the science and innovation process. Responsible research
and innovation (RRI) are not about adjudicating what is ‘good ’or ‘bad’, ‘positive ’or ‘negative’, or
‘responsible ’or ‘irresponsible’. Instead, RRI offers techniques, tools and frameworks to think about
questions of social responsibility and ensure scientists, funders and technologists don’t lose sight of
the context in which they do science, technology and innovation.
19RRI is closely related to other cross-cutting issues, and actions can be taken that address both RRI and
other important values, such as public/user engagement, open science or ethical assessments.
What is ERA4Health’s approach to RRI?
ERA4Health’s approach to RRI is focused on improving the quality of research and innovation by
keeping the broader context of your work visible. It encourages you to embed methodologies and
processes to consider four important dimensions related to research and innovation:
Anticipation. What might the future desirable and undesirable effects of
your work be? Who will benefit from it, and who might not? Can decisions be made now
to encourage the good, while minimising the bad effects? This isn’t about exhaustive
prediction but about building a sense of preparedness for the future.
Inclusion. Whose voices and knowledge are shaping your research
study? In health research, much evidence shows that patient organisations, health care
users and health professionals (amongst others) can improve the quality of innovation.
Inclusion is about creating opportunities for two-way exchange of information, co-
design or knowledge co-production to draw important outside voices into the research
process.
Reflection. Are there opportunities for you and your team to pause and
take stock’ about what you’re doing? Would everyone agree with your goals and the
decisions you’ve taken so far? Reflection is about making sure there is space and time
to collectively ask hard questions about a study’s foundations.
Responsiveness. What are the key decision points in your study? Are
there opportunities to change course, if you need to? The final dimension is a reminder
that the work you do under the label of RRI needs to shape the design, governance or
use of your research or innovation.
In sum RRI provides a framework to ask how research and innovation should be carried out in order
to ensure that we achieve the societal goals of research and innovation in an open and inclusive way.
ERA4Health believes that the RRI methodology improves the quality of research proposals and studys,
20and substantively engaging with this framework will therefore be rewarded in the proposal evaluation
process.
How should you include RRI in your study?
Experience with past funding programmes shows that these four dimensions – anticipation, inclusion,
reflection and responsiveness – provide a useful heuristic to think about social responsibility across a
range of domains. However, the diversity of health science and the range of local contexts engaged
within ERA4Health means that there cannot be a one size fits all approach. The specific approach to
RRI must be tailored to the actual social, environmental and ethical issues raised by a study’s research
and innovation activities.
This means that the commitment to RRI is clear and fixed in the programme, but there is an openness
about the issues addressed and the specific ways to practise responsibility – these must be adapted to
each study. In general, your approach to RRI should be proportionate to your proposal – disruptive,
ground-breaking or high-TRL (Technology Readiness Level) work is likely to require a more substantive
engagement with RRI. If the research is exploratory then RRI components can also be exploratory –
teasing out the potential visions, goals and end uses of a study. Overall, the goal is to demonstrate that
you have engaged and seriously considered the tensions and meaningful societal benefits associated
with health research and innovation.
The text below therefore provides overall ideas and advice but cannot give a recipe that all potential
applicants may use. However, the following four points will provide a good foundation as to how
develop your approach to RRI in your proposal:
1. Treat RRI as an integrated part of the study involving as many study members as
possible. Do not think of RRI as distinct from the science but as central to it. It is a process
that will increase the likelihood of delivering applications with real utility, fair accessibility
and concrete value for citizens.
2. It is important to develop a shared understanding of the study’s RRI aspects as early
as possible, and for the work plan to be specific to the study. Avoid writing generic, boiler-
plate text. By ‘RRI aspects’ we mean implications or characteristics of your research that
touch upon societal, ethical and environmental values.
3. Develop the scientific and RRI components in tandem. This means you will need to
have conversations about the goals, uncertainties and assumptions associated with the
scientific ideas. It is important to continue these conversations if the study is funded.
4. Make sure you adequately resource RRI. It takes time, effort, expertise and money to
do RRI well. While there is no one approach to operationalising RRI within a study, ideally
RRI needs to be coordinated and should have a lead.
But what should you actually do?
Starting points to help you identify the most relevant dimensions for your study.
The following questions will direct you to different RRI perspectives applicable for health research and
innovation studies. Many of these perspectives can be explored in a structured way with a range of
methodologies (for additional resources, see box below).
Please be aware that these options neither represent a complete list of examples, nor the mandated
approaches to RRI by ERA4Health.
211. Who will benefit from your study, who will not, and who may experience new risks?
Are those answers acceptable to you?
a. Does your study address a specific health-related or societal problem or need?
b. Will your innovation be affordable and accessible? If not, is that a problem?
c. Does your framing of the problem fit with other people’s understanding of it?
Can you access these alternative framings?
d. How does your approach to the health challenge compare to others
approaches?
e. What is the most appropriate form of intellectual property (IP) for your study
goals and affordability aspirations? Do classical IP strategies deliver the broadest
benefit? Can new strategies (e.g. Open Material Transfer Agreements) be adopted at
certain points of the research process?
f. How could commercial or non-commercial organisations benefit from your
research?
g. Are there foreseeable risks that you can mitigate now? For instance, what are
the potential risks of data being released? How can you take care to ensure these
data are interpreted appropriately?
2. Have you identified and involved relevant stakeholders, and have you considered
public engagement activities? Are there opportunities for stakeholders and the public to
contribute to your work? Stakeholders are people or organisations with a vested interest in
the study (both positive and negative), who may also contribute knowledge to it. They could
be patients, minorities and marginalised groups, health system users, special interest groups,
health professionals, companies, nonprofits, or advocacy organisations. A number of different
considerations for stakeholder engagement are important:
a. Think about the methodology you will use. For instance, ‘co-design’ and
‘knowledge co-production’ methodologies are good at generating trust and
allowing stakeholders, including the public, to contribute their knowledge to the
problem your study is trying to address.
b. Think also about the appropriate timing of different stakeholders’ inclusion:
certain kinds of knowledge may be more useful early on, whereas other knowledge
may be useful later.
c. It will likely be valuable (but not obligatory) to include expertise beyond the
medical and health sciences – such as lawyers, social scientists or philosophers –
to provide anticipatory and reflective methodologies or to address key challenges.
Approach them early in your study design.
d. Think about how best to formalise and include stakeholder knowledge in your
study. Are they best placed as scientific collaborators, as members of an advisory
board, or as consultants to deliver only specific tasks? Check if your approach is in
line with the national/regional funding rules before designing your proposal.
3. Have you created good deliberative spaces for your study team, partners and
aforementioned stakeholders, including the public, to anticipate and reflect on the broader
social, political, ethical or environmental context of your research? If not, RRI experts in
Science and Technology Studies, medical sociology, bioethics and science communication may
be able to help you with this in study design and implementation. A number of different
approaches are possible, e.g.:
a. Focusing on your day-to-day research work (“philosopher in the lab
approach”).
b. Using foresight and critical futures methodologies.
22c. Utilising a diverse advisory board.
d. Trans-disciplinary reflection at consortium meetings.
e. Using stage-gate approaches where explicit decisions about technological
choices are taken.
4. Have you reflected on/considered adapting your choice of research methods
regarding, for example:
a. Ethical issues in the study (including ethical considerations in the design of
participatory science and possibly broader than the “ethics self-assessment”)?
b. The use of data in your study – where does it come from, how will it be used
and where will it go? How will ethical use be ensured?
c. In vivo/in vitro experiments and need for use of animals in experiments?
d. Use of new approaches such as “Safe(r) by Design”?
e. Your ability to increase the likelihood of translation by outlining e.g. strategies
of scientific rigour, and strategies to reduce bias, inclusion of sex/gender as a
biological variable in study design?
f. Open Science (such as open data, open code, open protocol or other low
barrier data sharing practices) and other publication practices (including report all
results, also negative or so-called null results)?
g. And are there ways that your study can advance common practices on these
issues?
5. Have you engaged with important aspects of your research environment such as:
a. gender, ethnicity and intersectional equality, diversity and inclusivity?
b. career progression and precarity?
c. equity between partners in your research consortium?
6. Have you shown how the study (and product) satisfy requirements for patient and
production safety and efficiency? Will there be clear benefits for the patient by, for example
by:
a. listening to/satisfying user needs and safety concerns, or involving them in
design;
b. involving regulatory affairs professionals (toxicity tests, etc.),
c. communicating with regulatory entities as early as possible (the Food and
Drug Administration (FDA) or the European Medicines Agency (pharmaceuticals
and medical devices), etc.
7. Have you considered and evaluated environmental impacts and sustainable
solutions, in line with the Do No Significant Harm principle10, by including, for example:
a. lifecycle analysis (LCA)?
b. ecotoxicology studies?
c. safer- sustainable-, or recyclable-by-design methodologies?
How does ERA4Health support and evaluate RRI?
Health research and innovation happens in many different locations (e.g. universities, hospitals, care
homes, companies, policy organisations), involves different stages of research (i.e. across the TRL
spectrum) and different research cultures. Responsibility for innovation must be shared, and RRI
therefore requires a multi-level approach.
ERA4Health is taking a systemic approach to RRI, considering it in the development of the annual work
programme and the resulting funding calls. These guidelines were developed in collaboration with
23members of the ERA4Health community and will be updated on a rolling basis. The programme’s
capacity building activities will also facilitate a dialogue among stakeholders in health research about
RRI and ethical issues.
At the level of research studies, ERA4Health requires that all proposers explain how their studys
demonstrate a commitment to investigating and addressing the social, environmental, ethical,
political or cultural dimensions of the proposed research. Integration of RRI should lead to an
improved understanding and awareness of the possible benefits, risks, and uncertainties of health
science across a broad cross-section of society. This may include (but is not limited to) any of the
approaches described in the above section.
In the (pre-)proposal templates, three sections/points refer to RRI and ethics considerations and leave
space for you to explain your approaches:
• General RRI aspects
• Involvement of stakeholders and the public
• Ethical considerations (in your ethics self-assessment)
RRI components will be given advise on/evaluated by experts as integral components within the
scope of all evaluation criteria (Excellence, Impact, and Implementation). RRI does not detract from
the overall scoring but contributes to it: Proposals that explicitly aim to advance processes of
anticipation, reflection, inclusion and responsiveness by developing new analyses or methodologies
will be rewarded in the review process and the scores will be adjusted accordingly. In Pre-proposals:
The research consortia will receive advice on the RRI dimension from their proposal via written
comments from an RRI Adviser that will be shared with the reviewers. In full proposals: RRI Advisers
will comment on proposals before the Per Review Panel (PRP) meeting and be invited to give additional
advice on RRI and support the discussions during the PRP meeting.
The kinds of questions the RRI Advisers/reviewers will ask regarding RRI are:
Relating to Excellence
• Is the RRI approach proportionate to the content of the scientific proposal?
• Does RRI extend across the lifespan of the study? (e.g. as a sub-study, an advisory
board or to be considered in annual meetings)
• Are there clear deliverables associated with the RRI work, with ambitions to contribute
to RRI scholarship and/or new knowledge of the social, political, ethical or environmental
dimensions of health science?
Relating to Impact
• Are there clear opportunities for the RRI work to shape the study’s scientific
trajectories?
• Does the RRI work help align the study’s research better to the needs and values of
society?
Relating to Implementation
• Is there appropriate RRI expertise in the study?
• Is RRI work adequately resourced? Is it clear how the objectives will be achieved?
• Is it clear how the work is organised? (e.g. as a work package, a cross-cutting issue,
outsourced etc.)
• Is it clear who is doing the work and what they will do?
Web resources for including RRI in your project
http://www.rri-tools.eu provide numerous resources for practical RRI.
24https://infieri.online/en/home/#section-what-is-rih provides a particular framework to approach RRI
in health researchhttps://thinkingtool.eu/ The Societal Readiness Thinking Tool guides you through
the steps of including RRI in a project.
Tools for public engagement: https://www.publicengagement.ac.uk/resources and
http://actioncatalogue.eu/
Responsible Innovation-UKRI and RRI as a method (the Research Council of Norway) explains also RRI
and the value it adds.
Further examples specific to health science and innovation will in the future be provided on the RRI
webpage of ERA4Health (coming).
ERA4HEALTH’s approach to RRI builds on previous frameworks published by the UK and Norway, the
European Commission and funding programmes such as M-ERA.NET3, ERA CoBioTech and
EuroNanoMed3.
25