Business Bridge – Ukraine-Ready4EU 1
Call for Applications 2024-2
“Financial support combined with additional advice and assistance to up to 1.500
Ukrainian SMEs planning specific activities to integrate into the EU Single Market”
opened on 2nd of April 2024
Background
The “Ukraine-Ready4EU” project was initiated and is funded by the European Commission under the “Business Bridge”
call of the Single Market Programme. Its objective is to support Ukrainian Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs)
to integrate successfully into the EU Single Market.
Support offered
Under the brand name Business Bridge, the Ukraine-Ready4EU project offers financial support combined with
additional advice and assistance to up to 1.500 Ukrainian SMEs planning specific activities to become more active in
the EU Single Market and to cooperate successfully with EU business partners.
The Business Bridge financial support can cover the reimbursement of up to 2.500 EURO external expenses of the
beneficiary related to the implementation of specific activities.
Activities and expenses eligible for support
Business Bridge financial support can only be granted for eligible activities and expenses, specified in the Annex of
this Call for Applications.
Submission of applications
Applications can be submitted to Ukraine-Ready4EU exclusively via the official online grant application platform2,
accessible at https://ukraine-ready4eu.com/business-bridge.
Deadline for submission
As long as this Call for Applications is open, applications can be submitted at any time without a specific deadline.
Applications will be evaluated on a monthly basis at regular cutoff dates at the end of each month. Applications may
only relate to eligible activities and expenses specified in the Annex to this Call for Applications at the time of
submission.
Envisaged closure of the call
This Call for Application will close on 30 June 2025 at the latest due to the end of Ukraine-Ready4EU, or when the
maximum number of SMEs that have received Business Bridge financial support has been reached or the total available
funds are exhausted (whichever happens earlier). The closure of the Call will be announced in advance on the official
Ukraine-Ready4EU project website https://ukraine-ready4eu.com/business-bridge.
Conditions of participation and ‘Guidelines for Applicants’
The conditions of participation in this Call for Applications are specified in the compulsory ‘Guidelines for Applicants’,
version March 2024, which are binding for this call.
The guidelines can be found at https://epo.org.ua/downloads/bb_guidelines_march2024.pdf
1 Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily
reflect those of the European Union or granting authority European Innovation Council and SMES Executive Agency (EISMEA).
Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them.
2 Please note, that during an initial period an interim solution may be active. However, data entered into that interim solution
will later be transferred to the final submission platform automatically.Annex: Activities and expenses eligible under this Call for Applications
Only activities of the following type will be supported under this Call for Applications:
Type 1): Active participation in business meetings at official events, trade fairs, company
missions or brokerage events in the EU.
Eligible activities:
Eligible activities include travel to and active participation in international fairs, events or meetings in the EU,
especially events organized by members of the Cluster Alliance, the European Cluster Cooperation Platform or the
Enterprise Europe Network.
‘Active participation’ means that the Ukrainian SME either actively presents the company’s profile, its products,
and/or its services to the audience, or it has meetings with potential business partners based in an EU member
state (minimum one). Only active participations which can be documented and proved independently, e.g. by
official documents of the organizer of the event, are eligible.
The overall objective of the business meetings must be new business partnerships, market entry into the Single
Market etc, additional to the company’s already existing reach/activities (e.g. they should concern either a new
target market, or a new business partnership, or a new product/service marketed in the EU).
Eligible expenses (examples, non-exhaustive):
• Travel and accommodation (all payments must be executed in accordance with the Ukrainian legislation and
norms. Non eligible payments: 1st class tickets or business class flight tickets; accommodation costs exceeding
160 EUR per night (if not absolutely essential and duly justified)).
• Payment for specialized tickets to exhibitions, fairs, roadshows.
• Costs for renting an exhibition booth.
• Booth design and rental of additional equipment.
• Organizational fees or participation fees.
• Payment for support and translation services during the exhibition, business mission.
• Design and printing of promotional materials for company presentation.
• Design and printing of additional printed materials.
• Rent of showroom, exhibition space.
• Payment for transportation of exhibition samples, materials, goods.
• Registration fees for exhibitors.
• Insurance for travellers.
• Cost for money exchange and bank transfers related to the payments above.Type 2): External support to comply with a sustainable, digital and resilient EU economy.
Eligible activities:
Transformation into a sustainable, digital and more resilient economy is an important topic of the EU industrial policy.
To be able to quickly integrate into the EU value chains, Ukrainian SMEs must be able to meet the related requirements
of the EU Single Market.
Examples for activities eligible under this topic are:
• Comprehensive energy efficiency audits by external specialists.
• Identification of and examinations for appropriate certificates related to energy, environmental or social issues
by external specialists.
• Comprehensive environmental audits by external specialists.
• Comprehensive sustainability audits by external specialists on economic, social and environmental aspects
(also taking into account the indirect effects of the EU's Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD)
and the EU taxonomy for SMEs).
• Comprehensive digitalisation audits by external specialists.
• Comprehensive resilience audits by external specialists.
• Comprehensive analysis of the ecological, technological and economic readiness for the EU Single Market by
external specialists (also taking into account the indirect effects of the EU's Corporate Sustainability Reporting
Directive (CSRD) and the EU taxonomy for SMEs).
• External trainings by experts directly related to those audits.
Eligible expenses:
Only external costs for performing the audits and completing them successfully are eligible:
• Expenses for proven external experts conducting the audits.
• Expenses for related external training and support.Type 3): Examinations and certifications of products, required for the EU Single Market.
Eligible activities:
Using external services for the examination and certification of own products or services, required for their export to
the EU Single Market. Eligible topics are certifications about the compliance of products with EU standards and norms,
or other certificates supporting their purchasing to EU clients or business partners, thus enabling the Ukrainian SME
to gain foothold in the EU Single Market.
External support may also be used to prepare such certifications and to pass necessary examinations. If required, the
consortium partners of the “Ukraine-Ready4EU” project will support beneficiaries in getting assistance by proven cer-
tification experts in the EU or Ukraine.
Typical topics are (non-exhaustive):
• Examination of the requirements for product access to the EU Single Market.
• Compliance with EU product legislation, including required technical files.
• CE certification.
• Application of harmonized EN standards.
• Reach declarations.
• FSC and PEFC certificates (certificates for wood producers).
• Phytosanitary inspections and test certificates.
• Сlean certification / eco certification / certificates for organic and food producers.
• Other legal product certifications.
• Product quality assurance.
Eligible expenses:
Only external costs directly related to obtain the required certificates are eligible:
• Expenses for examinations and certificates by authorized external organisations.
• Expenses for external advisory support by proven experts, e.g. to prepare technical documentation for product
certifications or to pass necessary examinations.Type 4): External support for complying with customs or other formal export/import
requirements for the EU Single Market
The EU is one of Ukraine’s largest trading partners, which means that there are several opportunities to import and
export from the Ukraine to the EU, and vice versa. To support Ukrainian SMEs in exporting to and importing from the
EU Single Market, Business Bridge financial support can be used to cover external costs related to customs procedures,
or other formal export/import requirements for the EU Single Market.
It is also eligible to use external support for the preparation of customs documents and customs certificates. If re-
quired, the Consortium Partners of the “Business Bridge - Ukraine-Ready4EU” project will support beneficiaries in
getting assistance by proven external experts and authorized organisations in the EU or Ukraine.
Typical topics are (non-exhaustive):
• Preparation of customs documents and custom certificates.
• Customs brokerage services.
• Entry in the customs register.
• Registration of documents at customs offices.
• Pre-shipment inspection (inspection report confirming the correctness of the quantity/quality of vehicle
loading).
• Customs declaration; customs clearance of cargo.
• Certification (legalisation) of commercial documents. Certifying (legalising) commercial documents (e.g.
contracts, invoices, specifications, packing lists, Certificates of Origin, and similar documents) at the re-
quest of a foreign counterparty.
• Free Sales Certificate.
• Defining the product code or classification under UKT ZED.
• Carnet ATA registration.
Eligible expenses:
Only external costs directly related to customs procedures or other formal export/import requirements for the EU
Single Market are eligible:
• Expenses for examinations and declarations by authorized external organisations.
• Expenses for external advisory support by proven experts, e.g. to prepare customs documents and customs
certificates.Type 5): External support on patenting and licensing for the EU Single Market
Eligible activities:
Intellectual property (IP) and its protection play a pivotal role in fostering economic growth in the EU. Particularly
patents, trade marks and designs are essential rights to protect and promote innovations. IP rights increase the value
of a company and serve as an indicator of its economic development. Acquiring and/or licensing of IP rights in the EU
enables Ukrainian SMEs to gain a foothold in the EU single market.
External support may also be used to prepare an appropriate IP strategy. If required, the Consortium Partners of the
“Business Bridge - Ukraine-Ready4EU” project will support beneficiaries in getting assistance by proven external IP
experts in the EU or Ukraine.
Typical topics are (non-exhaustive):
• Application of EU patents (EP), EU trade marks (EUTM), or a EU design at an European patent office (EPO) or
an European intellectual property office (EUIPO).
• Application of national patents, trademarks, or designs at an EU national IP office (e.g. Deutsches Patent- und
Markenamt (DPMA) etc.).
• Prior art search for patents.
• Pre-diagnostic services for trademarks and designs.
• Licensing of EU Patent, EU trademarks, national patents, or national trademarks of an EU national IP office.
• Consultation relating IP.
• Exploitation of EU patents or national patents of an EU national IP offices.
Eligible expenses:
Only external costs directly related to intellectual property are eligible:
• Expenses for application fees or related IP office fees for EU patents, EU trademarks, EU designs, national
patents, trademarks, or designs at an EU national IP office.
• Expenses for the services of a patent attorney.
• Expenses for exploitation of EU Patents or national patents at an EU national IP office.
• Expenses for prior art search, pre-diagnostic services or consultation by professional representatives for IP
(e.g. patent attorneys, patent information centre (PATLIB)).
• Expenses for licensing of EU patents, EU trademarks, national patents or trademarks of an EU national IP office.
Note:
Each SME can receive Business Bridge financial support by Ukraine-Ready4EU only once, independent of the type(s) of
activity they apply for. During the application process, applicants must select the type(s) of activity for which they are
applying. It is possible to select one or more of the eligible activity types.Guidelines for Applicants
applying for financial support based on a
‘Call for Applications’
released by the EU-funded project
Business Bridge – Ukraine-Ready4EU
“Support to Ukrainian companies to integrate into the Single Market”
Version March 2024
Only the English version of this document is legally binding
The project Ukraine-Ready4EU is funded by the European Union via the
“Business Bridge” Call SMP-COSME-2023-SMEUA
under project number 101139573Table of contents
1 General principles.....................................................................................................................3
2 Background and introduction to Business Bridge – Ukraine-Ready4EU .....................................3
3 Type and amount of Business Bridge financial support .............................................................3
4 EU rules and regulations ...........................................................................................................4
5 Granting of the Business Bridge financial support .....................................................................4
6 When to apply ..........................................................................................................................5
7 How to apply ............................................................................................................................6
8 Eligibility criteria for applications ..............................................................................................6
8.1 Eligibility of the applicant......................................................................................................6
8.2 Exclusion of certain applicants ..............................................................................................7
8.3 Eligibility of the application ...................................................................................................7
8.4 Eligibility of specific activities ................................................................................................8
8.5 Eligibility of expenses............................................................................................................8
9 Selection process and criteria ...................................................................................................9
10 Conclusion of ‘Agreement on financial support’ ........................................................................9
11 Implementation of activities and reimbursement of expenses ................................................10
12 Communication with Ukraine-Ready4EU ................................................................................11
13 Disclaimer ..............................................................................................................................11
Annex 1: Guidance for motivation letter
Annex 2: Model ‘Agreement on financial support‘
Partners of the project consortium:
Cooperating EU initiatives:1 General principles
These guidelines explain how Ukrainian small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), planning to
increase their business operations on the EU Single Market through specific activities, can apply
for financial support by the Ukraine-Ready4EU project in response to a Business Bridge 'Call for
Applications', published by the project and referring to this version of the present guidelines.
The necessary information for applicants is provided in this document. If applicants need
additional help or information not provided below, they can get directly in touch with the contact
point by email to businessbridge@ukraine-ready4eu.com.
2 Background and introduction to Business Bridge – Ukraine-Ready4EU
The “Ukraine-Ready4EU” project was initiated and is funded by the European Commission under
the “Business Bridge” call of the Single Market Programme.
The main objectives of this project are:
• Supporting the integration of Ukrainian SMEs in the EU Single Market (especially by
establishing cooperations with new business partners in the EU).
• Supporting the process of import substitution for Ukrainian SMEs (especially replacing
products of Russian Federation and Belorussia by EU products).
• Supporting export activities of Ukrainian SMEs to the EU Single Market (especially recovering
broken supply chains).
• Supporting technology and innovation activities of Ukrainian SMEs and startups to meet EU
market requirements (especially in direct cooperation with business partners in the EU).
To achieve these objectives, the Ukraine-Ready4EU project can provide Business Bridge financial
support combined with additional advice and assistance to Ukrainian SMEs planning specific
activities to become more active on the EU Single Market and to cooperate successfully with EU
business partners. Until the envisaged project comes to an end in October 2025, the Ukraine-
Ready4EU project is planning to support up to 1.500 Ukrainian SMEs and start-ups, suitable and
eager to become engaged in the EU Single Market. This support will be offered under the brand
name “Business bridge”.
Further information about the project Ukraine-Ready4EU and the Business Bridge financial
support can be found on the official project website at https://ukraine-ready4eu.com/business-
bridge.
3 Type and amount of Business Bridge financial support
Business Bridge financial support by the project Ukraine-Ready4EU can be granted to selected
recipients in form of reimbursement of external expenses of the recipient for the implementation
of specific activities. Only eligible costs of activities properly completed and reported can be
reimbursed.The specific activities and the maximum amount of reimbursement will be previously agreed
between the recipient and the Ukraine-Ready4EU project. The conditions for reimbursement will
be specified in a mutual ‘Agreement on financial support’.
To be eligible for requesting Business Bridge financial support by Ukraine-Ready4EU, the
estimated expenses of the planned activities must exceed a minimum of 2.500 EURO or
equivalent in UAH (minimum threshold).
The maximum reimbursement of actual expenses will be limited to 2.500 EURO per “Agreement
on financial support”, even if the total expenses of the recipient exceed this amount.
Payments of the Business Bridge financial support will be made in UAH. Details can be found in
the model ‘Agreement on financial support’ in Annex 2 of the “Guidelines for Applicants”.
4 EU rules and regulations
Ukraine-Ready4EU is funded by the European Commission under the “Business Bridge” call of
the Single Market Programme. Recipients receiving Business Bridge financial support from the
Ukraine-Ready4EU project do benefit from the EU funding of this project.
As a consequence, they become ‘other participants involved in the action’, and some conditions
valid for the EU-funded project Ukraine-Ready4EU become binding for any recipient receiving
Business Bridge financial support, too.
In detail, this means especially that:
• The recipient has to publicly acknowledge that they received Business Bridge financial
support from the EU.
• Any communication activities related to activities being financially supported must
display the European flag (emblem) and include a funding statement.
• On request, financial auditors of the EU may get access to all financial and technical
documentation of the recipient related to the Business Bridge financial support received.
Details can be found in the model ‘Agreement on financial support’ in Annex 2 of the “Guidelines
for Applicants”.
5 Granting of the Business Bridge financial support
Business Bridge financial support by Ukraine-Ready4EU can only be granted on request by a
formal application (see below). Applications for Business Bridge financial support submitted to
the Ukraine-Ready4EU project will be processed in the order of their submission.
Only applications that are formally eligible and fulfil all specific requirements described in the
“Guidelines for Applicants”, can be considered for Business Bridge financial support.
Each eligible application will be individually rated by an independent selection committee, which
will meet regularly after monthly cutoff dates.Applications will not be ranked against each other. Applicants whose applications successfully
passed the eligibility check and were accepted by the selection committee, will get an offer for
Business Bridge financial support by the Ukraine-Ready4EU project. Acceptance by the Selection
Committee must be made by consensus.
Offers will be made in the order of the date of submission of the selected applications, until the
financial resources available for this purpose will be exhausted.
To accept this offer, recipients will have to conclude a ‘Agreement on financial support’.
A model of this ‘Agreement on financial support’ is shown in Annex 2 of the “Guidelines for
Applicants”.
6 When to apply
Applications for Business Bridge financial support by the Ukraine-Ready4EU project can only be
accepted in response to the 'Call for Applications', published by the project.
Applications can be submitted at any time between the official opening and closing date of the
'Call for Applications'.
Opening and closing dates of the 'Call for Applications' will be announced on the official website
of the Ukraine-Ready4EU project hosted on https://ukraine-ready4eu.com/business-bridge.
The initial opening of the 'Call for Applications' is envisaged for March 2024.
The 'Call for Applications' will remain open until the budget of Ukraine-Ready4EU available for
granting Business Bridge financial support will be spent or the project Ukraine-Ready4EU will end
(whatever will happen first).
The call will be closed on 30 of June 2025 at the latest, due to the scheduled end of the Ukraine-
Ready4EU project in October 2025.
Important notice:
The total budget of Ukraine-Ready4EU for granting Business Bridge financial support is limited
and only made available in tranches.
Therefore, the 'Call for Applications' may be closed at any time before the envisaged closure date,
if the budget available for granting Business Bridge financial support is fully utilised faster than
expected. The Call might be re-opened again, if new budget is made available for the project.
In case the Ukraine-Ready4EU project ends earlier than scheduled for whatever reason, the 'Call
for Applications' published by the project closes automatically at its project end, without further
notice or prior announcement.7 How to apply
Applications can only be submitted via the official grant application platform, designed and
functioning for the submission and the processing of applications and of reimbursement
requests. The grant application platform is accessible via the Ukraine-Ready4EU website:
https://ukraine-ready4eu.com/business-bridge.
Applicants must first have to register via an individual user account on this grant application
platform.1 During the registration process, applicants must also actively agree that all their data
collected on the grant application platform will be treated in accordance with Ukrainian data
protection law (for more information see the relevant Privacy Policy Statement:
https://epo.org.ua/downloads/bb_privacypolicystatement_march2024.pdf). After login into the
platform, they have to fill in the requested data and information into the online application form,
and to upload a scanned copy of a duly signed motivation letter (see Annex 1: Guidance for
motivation letter).
A case manager will check the formal eligibility of each application. This case manager will inform
the applicant about the result and, if eligible, will guide the applicant through the further process.
Applicants will be able to monitor the status of their application and to communicate with their
responsible case manager though the online platform by using their individual user account.
8 Eligibility criteria for applications
All applications for Business Bridge financial support submitted to Ukraine-Ready4EU will be
checked for eligibility first. Requests for Business Bridge financial support have to fulfil all
eligibility criteria described below in this section to pass the eligibility check. Applications not
fulfilling one or more of these eligibility criteria are ineligible and are automatically excluded from
any further selection process.
8.1 Eligibility of the applicant
Only Ukrainian small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and startups are invited to apply for
Business Bridge financial support by the “Ukraine-Ready4EU” project. To be eligible, an applicant
must comply with the following criteria:
• The applicant has not been selected for Business Bridge financial support by Ukraine-
Ready4EU before.
• The applicant is a Ukrainian company located and operating on territory under effective
control of Ukrainian authorities, or relocated to EU countries but is still registered in
Ukraine.
• The applicant is an existing company, registered under Ukrainian law. The company is not
in the process of liquidation or discontinuing its business activities.
1 Please note, that during an initial period an interim solution may be active. However, data entered into that
interim solution will later be transferred to the final submission platform automatically.• The applicant is an SME, complying with the European SME definition: less than 250
employees and an annual turn-over less than 50 million EURO, or less than 250 employees
and an annual balance less than 43 million EURO. The full definition can be found here.
• The applicant is able to certify its SME status according to the European Commission’s
self-assessment tool (Link) by supporting legal documents on request.
• The ongoing business activities of the applicant have been negatively affected by the war
(in terms of business locations, staff, turnover, export markets etc.).
8.2 Exclusion of certain applicants
The following type of applicants are explicitly excluded from receiving Business Bridge financial
support by the “Ukraine-Ready4EU” project, even if fulfilling the criteria of section 8.1 above:
• Applicants whose beneficial owners, shareholders, members holding voting rights,
investors or members of the management board (or equivalent persons) have Russian
and/or Belarusian citizenship (even if they are registered in Ukraine).
• Applicants subject to EU restrictive measures pursuant to Article 29 of the Treaty on the
European Union (TEU) and/or Article 215 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the
European Union (TFEU).
• Consortium Partners of the “Ukraine-Ready4EU” project, their external project partners,
their affiliated entities and their subsidiaries or employees – including permanent
collaborators, such as persons working under a contract equal or similar to an
employment contract, board members and members of their families.
8.3 Eligibility of the application
Only applications submitted through the official online grant application platform are accepted.
In addition, each application must meet the following criteria to be eligible:
• All information requested on the online grant application platform must be provided in
English language.
• The application submitted through the online platform must be complete and correct.
• The application must include a motivation letter (see Annex 1: Guidance for motivation
letter).
• The application must be authorized by the management of the applying SME.
• Activities for which the Business Bridge financial support is requested have not been
implemented yet. A formal start date will be specified in the ‘Agreement on financial
support’.
• The estimated external costs for implementing the planned specific activities will exceed
the minimum threshold of 2.500 EURO (or equivalent in UAH).
• The applicant did not apply for public funding from other sources for the same activity.
• The applicant has submitted all required supporting documents (extract from the
EDRPOU, bank details and motivation letter signed by CEO).• The applicant has declared its readiness to cooperate with other EU initiatives supporting
Ukraine SMEs, where appropriate (especially the Enterprise Europe Network; Erasmus for
Young Entrepreneurs; suitable European or Ukrainian cluster initiatives; the Supply Chain
Resilience Platform; the Energy Electric Matchmaking Forum Ukraine; the EU – Ukraine
Solidarity Lanes).
• The applicant has declared its commitment to publicly acknowledge any EU support it
may receive by the Ukraine-Ready4EU project and to display the European flag (emblem)
and funding statement in all related publication.
8.4 Eligibility of specific activities
Business Bridge financial support by Ukraine-Ready4EU can only be requested for external
expenses related to the following five types of action:
• Type 1: Active participation in business meetings at official events, trade fairs, company
missions or brokerage events in the EU.
• Type 2: External support to comply with a sustainable, digital and resilient EU economy.
• Type 3: Examinations and certifications of products, required for the EU Single Market.
• Type 4: External support on complying with customs or other formal export/import
requirements for the EU Single Market.
• Type 5: External support on patenting and licensing for the EU Single Market.
The types of action currently open for the submission of applications is specified in the published
“Call for Applications”.
Detailed information and examples on which activities and related external expenses are eligible
under the “Call for Applications” will be described as part of the published call document.
Each SME can receive Business Bridge financial support by Ukraine-Ready4EU only once,
independent of the type(s) of activity they apply for. During the application process, applicants
must select the type(s) of activity for which they are applying. It is possible to select one or more
of the currently eligible activity types.
8.5 Eligibility of expenses
Only external expenses necessary for the implementation of at least one of the types of activities
specified in the “Call for Applications” are eligible for Business Bridge financial support.
Detailed information and examples on which activities and related external expenses are eligible
under the “Call for Applications” are described as part of the published call document.9 Selection process and criteria
The budget and support capacity of the Ukraine-Ready4EU project are limited. Depending on the
number of eligible applications, it may not be possible to provide Business Bridge financial
support to all of them.
There is no legal claim for eligible applications to receive Business Bridge financial support by
the Ukraine-Ready4EU project.
Without exception, Business Bridge financial support will be provided exclusively based on an
‘Agreement for financial support”, concluded between UCCI as intermediary organization and a
selected Ukrainian SME.
The decision about which eligible applications will be offered the conclusion of such an
agreement is jointly made by the international consortium of the Ukraine-Ready4EU project. This
decision of the project’s Selection Committee is based on the principle of equal treatment and
non-discrimination.
Decisions of the Selection Committee will be made monthly, after individual evaluation of eligible
applications received until the latest cut-off date. A maximum of 150 eligible applications can be
processed and decided per month. Further eligible applications beyond the maximum number
will be decided at the next cutoff date.
Evaluation and selection follow clear and transparent criteria. Acceptance by the Selection
Committee must be consensus. Evaluation criteria applied by the experts of the Selection
Committee, which must be fulfilled by the applicants without exception for a successful selection,
are:
• convincing motivation and ambition of the applicant to get active on the Single Market.
• proven export readiness and commitment of the applicant to enter the Single Market.
• well-defined and convincing action plan, consistent with the applicant’s business
profile.
• adequate demonstration of capability of the applicant to implement the planned
activity.
• appropriate and convincing potential economic impact of the planned activity.
• realistic and convincing prospect of success of the planned activity.
10 Conclusion of ‘Agreement on financial support’
After acceptance of their application by the Selection Committee, selected applicants will be
invited to enter an ‘Agreement for financial support’ with UCCI as intermediary organization of
the Ukraine-ready4EU project. A model of this agreement is shown in Annex 2 of the “Guidelines
for Applicants”.
If no further clarification is required, the applicant will receive an individually specified
‘Agreement for financial support’ for signature.After receiving their ‘Agreement on financial support’, applicants will have not more than 15
working days to upload the duly signed document in pdf format via the online platform of
Ukraine-Ready4EU.
The hard copy of the duly sign agreement should be sent by post to the following address:
01601, Kyiv, 33 Velyka Zhytomirska str. – The Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Industry,
Export Support Center, Olga Shubina-Kurulenko.
If the signed ‘Agreement on financial support’ is not delivered on time without clear and
reasonable justification, this will be regarded as rejection of the invitation to receive Business
Bridge financial support from Ukraine-Ready4EU project.
Prior to the preparation of an individually specified ‘Agreement on financial support’, specific
documents are requested from the selected applicant if not provided already, e.g. to certify its
formal status and eligibility (non-exhaustive list):
• an extract from the register of entrepreneurs or any other registration document
indicating the location of the registered office of the applicant.
• the legal representation (optionally POA).
• tax ID number.
• tax statements.
• ownership structure.
• citizenship.
• financial statements.
• document/s confirming the staff headcount.
• proof of ongoing business activities.
• bank identification form.
• other documents in case of doubts raised during formal checks.
If the requested documents are not delivered by the applicant within the 5 working days
without clear and reasonable justification, this will be considered as a refusal of the applicant
to sign an ‘Agreement on financial support’.
11 Implementation of activities and reimbursement of expenses
Once the ‘Agreement on financial support’ is signed, the applicant will be an official recipient of
support of the Ukraine-Ready4EU project.
From the agreed start date of the activity, the applicant will have 3 months to implement the
activities described in its application, and to provide the financial and technical reports required
for reimbursement of its external expenses.
The original documents proving the implementation of the activity, as well as all original related
invoices (including proofs of their payment) for which reimbursement is requested from the
Ukraine-Ready4EU project, must be sent to the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Industry(UCCI) and scanned copies must be uploaded to the online platform of Ukraine-Ready4EU within
15 working days from the last payment eligible for reimbursement.
Non-fulfilment constitutes a breach of the ‘Agreement on financial support’ and may result in its
termination according to its article 5.
12 Communication with Ukraine-Ready4EU
In case of any questions related to applications for Business Bridge financial support, to the
implementation of supported activities or to reimbursement of related costs, the helpdesk of the
Ukraine-Ready4EU project can be contacted via email to businessbridge@ukraine-
ready4eu.com.
Any updates concerning the project, the “Guidelines for Applicants” or the “Call for Applications”
will be communicated on the official UkraineReady4EU webpage https://ukraine-
ready4eu.com/business-bridge.
13 Disclaimer
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the
author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or granting authority
European Innovation Council and SMES Executive Agency (EISMEA). Neither the European Union
nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them.
The project Ukraine-Ready4EU is funded by the European Union via the “Business Bridge” Call
SMP-COSME-2023-SMEUA under the project number 101139573.Annex 1: Guidance for motivation letter
The motivation letter must include the following information:
A) Name and place of your company.
B) Type(s) of activity addressed.
C) Title of your planned activity.
D) Planned start date / Planned end date.
The text of the motivation letter shall answer the following questions in short:
1) Why do you want to become active in the EU Single Market? Describe your motivation.
2) What experience do you already have on the EU Single Market? What do you plan in
addition to that? Which support do you still need?
3) How do you plan to operate on the EU Single Market? Describe your action plan.
4) For which step/measure/activity of your action plan do you request Business Bridge
financial support from Ukraine-Ready4EU?
5) Why do you need Business Bridge financial support to carry out the planned activities?
6) What type of expenses do you want to cover with that Business Bridge financial
support?
7) If your action plan contains purchasing of external advisory services: Which service
provider in Ukraine or EU do you plan to engage?
8) Why are this planned activities important for your company?
9) How do they fit to your business profile?
10) What impact do you expect for your company (sales, profit, turnover, jobs etc)?
The motivation letter must not exceed a total of 5000 characters. Any character exceeding the
limit of 5000 characters will not be considered in the selection process.
It shall include the company’s official letterhead, stamp and signature of its owner or manager.Annex 2: Model ‘Agreement on financial support’
Agreement for financial support of an SME recipient
Agreement for financial support № Договорі щодо фінансової підтримки №
place Data Місце Дата
This Agreement provides Business Bridge Договір щодо надання фінансової підтримки в
financial support (reimbursement of the costs) to рамках програми Бізнес-міст (покриття
Ukraine SMEs in the Frame of the European фінансових витрат) українським компаніям в
Ukraine Ready4EU Project. рамках європейського проекту Ukraine
Ready4EU
The intermediary organization (IO) that is Організація Посередник (ОП), яка
supporting legal entity in the frame of the project супроводжує юридичну особу в рамках проекту
Name of IO: The Ukrainian Chamber of Назва: Торгово-промислова палата України
Commerce and Industry Юридична адреса:
Address: Телефон: +380 44 584-28-24
Tel.: +380 44 584-28-24 Факс: +380 44 584-28-27
Fax: +380 44 584-28-27 (fax) E-mail:
E-mail:
Name of the authorized ПІБ уповноваженого
representative:__________, vice-president представника:_____________________, віце-
Hereafter referred as the “IO” президент
of the one part, Надалі організація іменується як «ОП» з однієї
сторони,
and
та
the Recipient of Business Bridge financial Отримувач фінансової допомоги в рамках
support(LEGAL ENTITY) програми Бізнес міст (Юридична особа)
Name of the company: Назва
_________________________ компанії:_______________________________
Address: Адреса:
Tel.:+380509764861 Телефон: +380509764861
Fax: - Факс: -
E-mail: e-mail:
Referred as the “Recipient” of the other part, Надалі іменується «Отримувач» з іншої
сторони,
considering that the Recipient has been враховуючи, що Отримувача було успішно
successfully selected for the reimbursement of обрано для відшкодування витрат в рамках
costs in the frame of the UkraineReady4EU проекту Ukraine-Ready4EU, сторони
Project, partiesпро наступне:
HAVE AGREED THE FOLLOWING: ДОМОВИЛИСЬ
Article 1 - Subject of the contract Стаття 1 - Предмет договору
1.1 The IO will reimburse the amount of the 1.1 ОП України відшкодує суму витрат,
costs paid by Recipient for the service that was сплачених Реципієнтом за послугу, яка була
described in the application form N#_____ that описана в аплікаційній формі №_____, що була
was submitted in the Ukraine Ready4EU подана в інформаційній системі програми
application IT system, and was selected for "Готовність України до ЄС", та була відібрана
reimbursement of cost for services that can be для відшкодування витрат на послуги, які
covered by current project.1 можуть бути покриті в рамках поточного
проекту.1
1.2 The maximum amount of direct Business 1.2 Максимальна сума прямої фінансової
Bridge financial support is limited to 2.500 підтримки в рамках програми Бізнес-міст
EURO. становить 2.500 євро.
Article 2 - Eligibility criteria of the Business Стаття 2 - Мета та критерії прийнятності
Bridge financial support and obligations of фінансової підтримки і зобов'язання
the Recipient одержувача в рамках програми Бізнес-міст
Ukraine-Ready4EU project is strategic project for Проект Ukraine-Ready4EU є стратегічним
supporting Ukrainian SMEs to integrate into the проектом для підтримки МСП України в
EU Single Market. інтеграції до EU Single Market.
The Recipient has accepted to comply with all the Отримувач погодився та дотримуватися всіх
conditions related to the implementation of this умов щодо реалізації цього проекту, зокрема:
project, in particular:
2.1. The Recipient is a SME according to the 2.1. Реципієнт є МСП у розумінні Європейського
European Definition of SMEs and is able to визначення МСП і може підтвердити свій статус
demonstrate its SME status with the SME Self- МСП за допомогою інструменту самооцінки
Assessment tool of the European Commission and МСП Європейської Комісії та шляхом подання
prove it by providing the relevant documentation відповідних документів (наприклад, виписка з
(e.g. extract from the EDRPOU, balance sheets, ЄДРПОУ, баланси, звіти про прибутки та збитки,
profit and loss accounts, proof of the staff підтвердження кількості працівників тощо).
headcount, etc.).
2.2. The Recipient is a Ukrainian SME based in 2.2. Отримувач – це МСП, що базується в
Ukraine and located and registered on territories Україні, розташоване та зареєстроване на
that are under the effective control of the територіях, які фактично контролюються
Ukrainian authorities or relocated to EU українською владою.
countries.
2.3. The Recipient agrees to be referred to in a 2.3. Отримувач погоджується бути внесеним до
future central database of Ukrainian SMEs майбутньої центральної бази даних українських
receiving financial support from EU and МСП, які отримують фінансову підтримку від
internationally-funded schemes (including the use ЄС та міжнародних схем (включаючиof its logo), in order to ensure transparency and використання її логотипу), щоб забезпечити
avoid double-funding. This future central прозорість та уникнути подвійного
database will be managed by Diia.Business and фінансування. Ця майбутня централізована база
the Ukrainian Consortium Partners of the даних буде управлятися "Дія.Бізнес" та
“Ukraine-Ready4EU” project. українськими партнерами консорціуму проекту
"Ukraine-Ready4EU".
2.4. The Recipient confirms not to receive 2.4. Отримувач підтверджує, що не отримує
funding from any other entity for the activities фінансування від будь-якої іншої організації для
supported by this action. заходів, які підтримуються цим проектом.
2.5. The Recipient intends to grow and to 2.5. Отримувач має намір розвиватися та
implement sustainable business models. впроваджувати стійкі бізнес-моделі.
2.6. The Recipient commits to clearly identify, 2.6. Отримувач зобов’язується чітко
advertise and communicate the EU funding ідентифікувати, рекламувати та повідомляти про
received. Communication activities related to the отримане фінансування ЄС. Комунікаційні
action must acknowledge EU support and display заходи, пов’язані з діяльністю в рамках цього
the European flag (emblem) and funding проекту, повинні визнавати підтримку ЄС і
statement. відображати європейський прапор (емблему) і
заяву про фінансування.
2.7. The Recipient confirms its readiness for the 2.7 Отримувач підтверджує свою готовність до
further development of the company and increase подальшого розвитку компанії та підвищення її
its visibility on the Single Market: the company is видимості на Єдиному ринку, а саме компанія
invited to receive complimentary services from запрошена отримувати безкоштовні послуги від
EC initiatives, such as EEN, ECCP, Erasmus, or, таких ініціатив ЄС, як EEN, ECCP, Erasmus або
if necessary, to register on the b2match platforms якщо необхідно зареєструватися на платформі
(Solidarity Lanes, Supply Chain or Energy b2match (Solidarity Lanes, Supply Chain або
Electric Forum), or to become member of one of Energy Electric Forum) або стати членом одного з
the Ukrainian clusters from Ukrainian Cluster українських кластерів від УКА.
Alliance.
2.8 The Recipients must take all measures to 2.8 Отримувачі повинні вжити всіх заходів для
prevent any situation where the impartial and запобігання будь-якій неупередженій та
objective implementation of the Agreement could об'єктивній ситуації реалізація Угоди може бути
be compromised for reasons involving family, скомпрометована через причини, що
emotional life, political or national affinity, стосуються сімейного, емоційного життя,
economic interest or any other direct or indirect політична або національна приналежність,
interest (‘conflict of interests’). економічний інтерес або будь-який інший
прямий чи непрямий інтерес («конфлікт
інтереси).
2.9 The Recipient must carry out the agreed 2.9 отримувач має дотримуватись найвищих
activities in line with the highest ethical standards етичних стандартів і чинного законодавства ЄС,
and the applicable EU, international and national міжнародного та національного законодавства
law on ethical principles. In addition, the щодо етичних принципів. Основні цінності ЄС
Recipient must ensure the respect of basic EU викладені в ст. 2 Лісабонського договору та
values. The basic EU values are laid out in Art. 2 Хартії основних прав людини.of the Lisbon Treaty and the EU Charter of
Fundamental Rights.
Article 3 – Service description and duration of Стаття 3 –Опис послуг та тривалість угоди
the agreement
3.1. The Agreement enters into force from the 3.1. Угода набирає чинності з моменту
moment of signing, and is valid until the Parties підписання, і діє до повного виконання своїх
fully fulfill their obligations. обов’язків Сторонами
3.2. The Recipient is only entitled to direct 3.2 Отримувач має право отримувати пряму
Business Bridge financial support for фінансову підтримку в рамках програми Бізнес-
actions/services that have been described in detail міст лише для дій/послуг, які були детально
in the application form and in Annex 1 to this описані у Формі заявки та в Додатку 1 до цієї
agreement. Угоди.
3.3. The Recipient is invited to learn lessons from 3.3. Отримувач запрошується після отримання
the experience gained after receiving direct прямої фінансової підтримки в рамках програми
Business Bridge financial support and to prepare Бізнес міст провести сесію з підведення
an action plan for the company's next actions. підсумків і підготувати план дій для наступних
дій компанії.
Article 4 – Payment arrangements and Стаття 4 - Організація оплати та звітність
Reporting
4.1. The SMEs benefiting from this Business 4.1. МСП, які отримають фінансову підтримку в
Bridge financial support will need to justify all рамках програми Бізнес-міст, повинні будуть
expenses by providing to the consortium обґрунтувати всі витрати, надавши консорціуму
supporting documents for each expense. підтверджуючі документи для кожної витрати.
All documents, invoices to be reimbursed and Усі документи, рахунки-фактури, які підлягають
proofs of payment must be sent in original to the відшкодуванню, і підтвердження оплати мають
IO and uploaded to the IT system within 15 бути надіслані в оригіналі до ОП та завантажені
working days from the last payment eligible for в ІТ-систему протягом 15 днів після здійснення
reimbursement. останньої оплати вартості послуг дозволених в
проекті.
4.2. Reimbursement of travel costs: 4.2. Відшкодування витрат на проїзд:
For reimbursement of flight and accommodation Для відшкодування перельоту та проживання
for participation in B2B events, company для участі в заходах B2B, місіях компанії та
missions and trade fairs, the company must торгових ярмарках компанія повинна надати ОП
provide the IO with the relevant information and відповідну інформацію та документи про захід,
documents about the event, its duration and the його тривалість та назву установи, яка його
name of the institution organizing it. організовує.
Additional documents such as photos and cheques Додаткові документи, такі як фотографії та чеки,
must also be provided after the end of the event to також необхідно надати після закінчення заходу,
prove the stay. щоб підтвердити перебування.
4.3. The IO will reimburse the costs for the SMEs 4.3. ОП відшкодує витрати для МСП після того,
after the payment was made by the Recipient. як платіж буде здійснено Отримувачем
фінансової допомоги.4.4 The IO will reimburse the costs in UAH for 4.4 ОП відшкодовує Одержувачу витрати в
the Recipient based on the exchange rate гривнях на основі обмінного курсу (EUR/UAH),
(EUR/UAH) set by the National Bank of Ukraine встановленого Національним банком України
(NBU) on the day of the transfer of the (НБУ) на день переказу відшкодування
reimbursement to the Recipient. Одержувачу
4.5. The reimbursement is only possible for costs 4.5. Відшкодування можливе лише за витрати,
incurred after the confirmation of eligibility of the понесені після підтвердження прийнятності
application dated xx.xx.xxxx. заявки від xx.xx.xxxx.
4.6. The Recipient must keep records and other 4.6. Отримувачем фінансової допомоги повинен
supporting documents to prove the proper зберігати записи та інші підтверджуючі
implementation of the action at least 5 years after документи, щоб підтвердити належне виконання
payment of the Business Bridge financial support. проекту, принаймні 5 років після виплати
фінансової підтримки в рамках програми Бізнес-
міст.
Article 5 – Termination of the agreement Стаття 5 - Припинення дії угоди
5.1 This agreement can be terminated for an 5.1 Ця угода може бути розірвана з поважної
important reason. As important is recognized a причини. Поважною причиною вважається,
reason for which the continuation of the якщо продовження договірних відносин до
contractual relationship until the end of the завершення Проекту вважається нерозумним для
Project is considered unreasonable for the сторони, що розриває договір, беручи до уваги
terminating party while taking into account the взаємні інтереси та всі обставини конкретного
mutual interests and all circumstances of the випадку. Прикладами, коли продовження
individual case. Examples of when continuation договірних відносин вважається нерозумним
of the contractual relationship is considered (без шкоди для інших ситуацій розірвання
unreasonable (without prejudice to other договору), є випадки, коли
termination situations) are if: - одержувач вчинив шахрайство, корупцію або
- the recipient has committed fraud, corruption, бере участь у злочинній організації чи
or is involved in a criminal organization or незаконній діяльності
illegal activity - одержувач не дотримується чинного
- the recipient does not comply with the національного законодавства про податки та
applicable national law on taxes and social соціальне забезпечення
security - проти реципієнта відкрито провадження у
- bankruptcy proceedings or similar справі про банкрутство або аналогічне
proceedings under national law are opened провадження згідно з національним
against the recipient законодавством
- if the official events, trade fairs, company - якщо офіційні заходи, виставки, місії компаній
missions or brokerage events in the EU for або брокерські заходи в ЄС, на які реципієнту
which the recipient was promised Business було обіцяно фінансову підтримку Business
Bridge financial support are officially Bridge, офіційно скасовано або перенесено таким
cancelled or postponed in such a way that they чином, що вони більше не підпадають під
no longer fall within the duration of the тривалість проекту "Україна - Ready4EU"
“Ukraine-Ready4EU” project - тощо.
- etc.
5.2 The agreement can also be terminated by the 5.2 Угода також може бути розірвана МО, якщо
IO if the Recipient breach its contractual Одержувач порушує свої договірні зобов'язання.obligations. In the event of a breach of the У разі порушення договірних зобов'язань
contractual obligations the IO also has the right to Організація, що надає підтримку, також має
claim the Recipient the full refund of all payments право вимагати від Одержувача повного
made to the Recipient up to that point. відшкодування всіх платежів, здійснених
Одержувачу до цього моменту.
5.3 The agreement can also be terminated by the 5.3 Угода також може бути розірвана
IO if the Grant Agreement Ukraine-Ready4EU Посередником у разі припинення дії Грантової
was terminated for any reason. угоди між Україною та програмою Ready4EU з
будь-якої причини.
5.4 The IO can terminate the agreement, if a 5.4 ОП може розірвати угода , якщо зміна в
change to the legal, financial, technical, юридичній, фінансовій, технічній,
organisational or ownership situation of the організаційній або правовій ситуації Одержувача
Recipient is likely to substantially affect or delay може суттєво погіршити або затримати
the implementation of the action or calls into реалізацію заходу або поставити під сумнів
question the decision to award the grant. рішення про надання фінансування.
Article 6 – Data Protection Стаття 6 – ахист даних
6.1. The parties must keep confidential any data, 6.1. Сторони повинні зберігати конфіденційність
documents or other material (in any form) that is будь-яких даних, документів або інших
identified as sensitive in writing (‘sensitive матеріалів (у будь-якій формі), які в письмовій
information’) — during the implementation of the формі визначені як конфіденційні
action. («конфіденційна інформація») — під час
виконання заходів.
6.2. The parties must process personal data under 6.2. Сторони повинні обробляти персональні
the Agreement in compliance with the applicable дані згідно Угоди та відповідно до чинного
Ukrainian law on data protection. законодавства України про захист даних.
Article 7 - Financial audits and controls Стаття 7 - Фінансові аудити та контроль
7.1. The IO is authorized at any time during the 7.1. ОП уповноважені в будь-який час під час
implementation of the Project and the activities реалізації Проекту та діяльності, передбаченої
under this agreement and up to five years after the цією Угодою, а також протягом п'яти років після
end of the project to arrange financial audits and завершення Проекту організовувати фінансові
checks/reviews of the implementation of the аудити та перевірки/огляди виконання заходів та
action and the compliance with the obligations to дотримання зобов'язань, покладених на
be carried out on the Recipient. Одержувача.
7.2. Findings in audits, reviews or checks may 7.2. Результати аудитів, оглядів або перевірок
lead to the rejection of ineligible costs, reduction можуть призвести до відхилення неприйнятних
of the grant or recovery of undue amounts. витрат, зменшення гранту або стягнення
надмірних сум.
Article 8 - Liability Стаття 8 - Відповідальність
8.1. The IO cannot be held liable for any damage 8.1. Організація підтримки, не несуть
caused to the Recipient as a consequence of відповідальності за будь-яку шкоду, заподіянуimplementing this agreement, or any Одержувачу в результаті виконання цієї угоди,
acts/omissions in relation to this contract, або за будь-які дії/бездіяльність, пов'язані з цим
including negligence. контрактом, включаючи недбалість.
8.2. The Recipient is liable for any act or omission 8.2. Одержувач несе відповідальність за будь-яку
that causes damages to the IO in relation to this дію або бездіяльність, що завдає шкоди
agreement. Організації підтримки, у зв'язку з цією угодою.
8.3 The Recipient has to compensate the IO for 8.3 Одержувач зобов'язаний відшкодувати
any damage it sustains as a result of the Організації підтримки, будь-яку шкоду, якої
agreement. This does not apply in the event of вони зазнали внаслідок цієї угоди. Це не
damage due to force majeure. поширюється на збитки, завдані внаслідок форс-
мажорних обставин.
8.4 Joint liability between IO and the Recipient is 8.4 Солідарна відповідальність між МО та
excluded. Одержувачем виключається.
Article 9 - Force Majeure Стаття 9 - Форс-мажорні обставини
9.1 A party prevented by force majeure from 9.1 Сторона, яка була позбавлена можливості
fulfilling its obligations under the Agreement виконувати свої зобов'язання за Договором
cannot be considered in breach of them. внаслідок форс-мажорних обставин, не може
вважатися такою, що їх порушила.
9.2 ‘Force majeure’ means any situation or event 9.2 "Форс-мажор" означає будь-яку ситуацію або
that: подію, яка
- prevents either party from fulfilling their - перешкоджає будь-якій зі сторін виконувати
obligations under the Agreement, свої зобов'язання за Договором,
- was unforeseeable, exceptional situation - є непередбачуваною, винятковою ситуацією та
and beyond the parties’ control, непідконтрольною сторонам
- was not due to error or negligence on their - не є наслідком помилки або недбалості з
part (or on the part of other participants їхнього боку (або з боку інших учасників,
involved залучених до дії) і
in the action), and - виявилася неминучою, незважаючи на вжиття
- proves to be inevitable in spite of всіх належних заходів.
exercising all due diligence.
9.3 Any situation constituting force majeure must 9.3 Про будь-яку ситуацію, що становить форс-
be formally notified to the other party without мажор, необхідно негайно офіційно повідомити
delay, stating the nature, likely duration and іншу сторону, із зазначенням характеру,
foreseeable effects. ймовірної тривалості та передбачуваних
наслідків.
9.4 The parties must immediately take all the 9.4 Сторони повинні негайно вжити всіх
necessary steps to limit any damage due to force необхідних заходів для обмеження будь-якої
majeure and do their best to resume шкоди внаслідок форс-мажорних обставин
implementation of the action as soon as possible. і зробити все можливе для якнайшвидшого
відновлення виконання договору.Article 10 - Promotion Стаття 10 - Промоція
10.1 Any communication activity of the Recipient 10.1 Будь-яка комунікаційна діяльність
related to the action must acknowledge EU Одержувача, пов'язана з проектом, повинна
support and display the European flag (emblem) підтверджувати підтримку ЄС і містити
and funding statement (translated into local європейський прапор (емблему) та заяву про
languages, where appropriate). фінансування (перекладену місцевими мовами,
де це доречно).
10.2 Any communication or dissemination 10.2 Будь-яка комунікаційна або інформаційна
activity related to the action must indicate the діяльність, пов'язана з проектом, повинна
following disclaimer: містити наступне застереження:
“Funded by the European Union. Views and "Фінансується Європейським Союзом.
opinions expressed are however those of the Висловлені погляди та думки належать
author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those виключно автору(ам) і не обов'язково
of the European Union or the European відображають погляди та думки Європейського
Innovation Council and SMEs Executive Agency Союзу або Європейської ради з інновацій та
(EISMEA). Neither the European Union nor the виконавчого агентства з питань малого та
granting authority can be held responsible for середнього бізнесу (EISMEA). Ані Європейський
them.” Союз, ані орган, що надав грант, не несуть за
них відповідальності."
Article 11 – Contact person Стаття 11 – Контактна особа
Any communication in connection with this Будь-яка комунікація у зв’язку з цією угодою
agreement shall be done by the company in повинна здійснюватися в письмовій формі
writing to the contact person mentioned below. контактній особі, зазначеній нижче.
Name and surname of the contact person in the Прізвище, ім'я та по батькові контактної особи в
IO: Shubina-Kurulenko Olga ОП: Шубіна -Куруленко Ольга
Function: Посада:
Address:: Velyka Zhytomyrska Str. 33, Kyiv, Адреса: вул. Велика Житомирська. 33, м. Київ,
01601, Ukraine 01601, Україна
Tel.:+380506434344 Тел.:+380506434344
Email: soo-ird@ucci.org.ua Електронна адреса: soo-ird@ucci.org.ua
Article 12 – Bank account Стаття 12 – Банківський рахунок
Payment of the Business Bridge financial support Виплата фінансової підтримки в рамках
will be made to the Recipient bank account: програми Бізнес міст буде здійснена на
банківський рахунок Одержувача:
Recipient's Name of the bank: Назва банку отримувача:
Recipient's bank account IBAN: Номер банківського рахунку отримувача: IBAN:Article 13 – Applicable law and Dispute Стаття 13. Застосоване законодавство та
settlement врегулювання суперечок
13.1. The Agreement is governed by the 13.1. Угода регулюється чинним законодавством
applicable Ukrainian law. України.
13.2. Disputes concerning the interpretation, 13.2. Спори щодо тлумачення, застосування або
application or validity of the Agreement must be дійсності цієї Угоди підлягають розгляду в судах
brought before the courts of Kiyv, Ukraine. A м. Київ, Україна. Зміна місця юрисдикції
deviating place of jurisdiction is permitted if the допускається за взаємною згодою Сторін.
parties mutually agree to this.
Article 14 – Language Стаття 14 - Мова
The working language for the Project will be Робочою мовою Проекту буде англійська.
English. Especially related formal Особливо пов'язане з цим офіційне спілкування
communication between the consortium and the між консорціумом та заявниками-реципієнтами
Recipient applicants must be available in English. повинно здійснюватися англійською мовою.
Article 15 – Other provisions Стаття 15 – Інші положення
15.1. Any amendment to this agreement must be 15.1. Будь-яка поправка до цієї угоди повинна
the subject of a written supplementary agreement. бути зазначена та прописана в додатковій угоді
No oral agreement may bind the parties to this до цього договору. Жодна усна домовленість не
effect. може зобов’язувати сторони до виконання.
15.2. Done in two copies, one for each party. 15.2. Договір надано в двох примірниках
Article 16 - Legal addresses and details of the 16. - Юридичні адреси і реквізити сторін
parties
For IO: Для ОП
Mr. Mykola Gavrylenko, Vice-president Микола Гавриленко, віце-президент
__________________ __________________
Data + Stamp Дата + Печатка
For Recipient legal entity: For Recipient legal entity:
__________________ __________________
Data + Stamp Дата + Печатка