Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Page 1 of 7
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them.1 Title of the call
UP-RISE Open call for fermented food processors (akpan for Benin, coco baca for Ivory Coast, maziwa mala
for Kenya,. kunun zaki for Nigeria, umqombothi for South Africa).
2 Context of the call
In line with the objectives of the African Food Safety strategy, the UP-RISE project was awarded a Horizon Europe
grant. UP-RISE stands for European Union (EU)-African (AU) Union Partnership for Resilient, Inclusive and Safe
food systems for Everyone. UP-RISE contributes to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development Goals by
simulating joint EU-AU research and innovation activities to end hunger, achieve food security and improved
nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture.
The international project UP-RISE aims to provide groundbreaking knowledge to understand and prevent
mycotoxin contamination and deliver solutions in Africa to strengthen the African Food Safety Systems. It
responds to the challenge of reducing food contaminants, in particular mycotoxins, for greater food safety and
fewer food-borne diseases.
The project focuses on five African Union member states, namely Benin, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Nigeria and South
Africa.
UP-RISE foresees a large engagement with local stakeholders to understand the challenges faced by
entrepreneurs and strive for improved food safety. In particular, it will engage with entrepreneurs to provide
new knowledge for understanding mycotoxin contamination in the informal sector, predict mycotoxin
contamination, improve risk assessment tools to strengthen regulatory frameworks, and develop innovative
solutions for reducing mycotoxin contamination in fermented food value chains, thereby aiming for safe food
systems for all.
Therefore, this call aims to foster collaboration between the UP-RISE project team and local food processors,
together with connected operators, from value chains of fermented foods consumed domestically. Target
operators for this call are operators that ferment the food product. In this call, they are referred to as processors.
More information on UP-RISE is available on the project website: UP-RISE Food Safety (uprisefoodsafety.org)
3 Objectives & scope of the call
This call aims to select 10 processors or groups of processors that work on the fermentation of traditional
products in specific fermented food value chains, respectively two processors of akpan in Benin, two processors
of coca baca in Ivory Coast, two processors of maziwa mala in Kenya, two processors of kunun-zaki in Nigeria and
two processors of umqombothi in South Africa.
The processors together with connected operators in the value chains will constitute the case studies (2 per
country) of the UP-RISE project.
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Page 2 of 7
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them.The UP-RISE project team aims to collaborate and involve processors and connected operators in the value
chain to facilitate knowledge exchange, analyze the current activity and food safety attainment and work
towards improvements. The collaboration would span over three year (January 2025 to December 2027).
The specific objectives for this call are for operators to be involved in the following activities:
- Sharing production knowledge;
- Managing logistics for food safety sampling and analysis;
- Demonstrating UP-RISE innovations such as new fermentation protocols and good food safety
practices;
- Hosting workshops and participatory research sessions;
- Opening businesses for safe production demonstrations;
- Implementing mycotoxin mitigation measures.
The processors selected and connected operators in the value chain will be eligible for financial compensation
for the time, effort and investments made to participate in the above-mentioned activities. After being
selected, the actors (selected processors and connected operators) will sign a contract regarding their
collaboration with the UP-RISE project team and the financial compensation to which they will be eligible. This
contract will feature more details about the specific activities in which these third parties (actors from the case
studies connected in value chains) are expected to partake. This list of specific activities will vary according to
needs assessment, foreseen investments for improved food safety and specific project requirements. By signing
the contract, the processors will commit to undertaking the listed activities.
As the main objective is to build knowledge to scale up impact, this call encourages and supports actors in the
value chain to provide their insights and 'real life’ knowledge and perception to the UP-RISE project.
4 Eligibility criteria
Applicants must be processors (i.e., actors in the value chain that are involved in fermenting the product) of:
- akpan in Benin; or
- coco baca in Ivory Coast; or
- maziwa mala in Kenya; or
- kunun zaki in Nigeria; or
- umqombothi in South Africa.
The collaboration is designed to benefit an individual, a small-scale business, an SME or a group of processors
and connected operators in the value chain.
Applications not fulfilling the above stated eligibility criteria will be rejected.
5 Award criteria
The preselection team and then the selection committee will assess eligible and admissible applications
following the award criteria defined in this section. The award criteria are:
• Geographical site accessibility that will facilitate logistics for sampling or regular exchange and site
visits;
• Data accessibility & traceability: ability to trace the value chain from raw materials to final products,
connection to both upstream and downstream operators in the value chain;
• Entrepreneurial skills: basic management and organizational skills;
• Communication skills: clearly communicate key aspects of the business. If possible, the applicant has
knowledge of English or French;
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Page 3 of 7• Motivation & availability: open to collaborate, open to mentoring and commitment during the time
frame of the project;
• Reliability & representativeness: The information provided in the application seems realistic and in line
with other operators' activities in the field;
• Gender: at least half applicants selected will be female-owned businesses or with daily operation
conducted mostly (51%) by women
Each criterion will be assigned a grade from 1 to 4. These grades will be assigned following assessment of the
application submitted and in-depth interviews (see Section 8 ‘Preselection’).
Additional assets might be taken into account to assess cases of exceptional candidates. These fall under the two
following criteria:
• Overall innovation capacity, social innovation and environmental performance;
• Trade perspectives, particularly in terms of potential export to the EU.
By submitting an application, the applicant commits to providing accurate information.
6 Financial support
6.1 Available funding
Each African university partner of the UP-RISE project, namely the University of Abomey-Calavi (UAC) in Benin,
the University of Nangui Abrogoua (UNA) in Ivory Coast, the University of Nairobi (UoN) in Kenya, the Federal
University of Technology Minna (FUTMIN) in Nigeria, and the University of Johannesburg (UJ) in South Africa will
respectively be responsible for a maximum of 100,000 EUR funding. This amount will be dedicated to the two
case studies comprising selected processors and connected operators in the value chain.
Each applicant together with connected operators in the value chain will be eligible to receive financial
compensation for their activities within the project.
6.2 Costs eligibility
Different activities, in which applicants will take part, will be eligible to claim financial compensation. A list of
these activities features in section 3.
These compensations will be capped per selected third party to a maximum according to the table below.
Amounts Criteria
1,000 to 5,000 EUR Participation of small businesses or small operators in a large supply chain.
5,000 to 20,000 EUR: SMEs or group of operators taking part in demonstration activities.
20,000 to 60,000 EUR SMEs or group of operators taking part in equipment purchase, process
innovation, or staff training.
6.3 Payment terms
In each country, payments will be made by the respective responsible African university partner. Payments will
be made in cash, mobile money or to a bank account in a minimum of two instalments directly to the third parties
(all contracted operators in the value chains).
The financial compensation to which operators will be entitled to through the UP-RISE project will be specified
in the contract established between the respective responsible African university partner and the operators. The
maximum amount for support will be defined based on an assessment of needs and the list of activities in which
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Page 4 of 7operators will partake. The contract will include an overview of the planned expenses and payments will be made
according to realized expenses.
Proofs of expenses (purchases and/or and time spent collaborating with UP-RISE) will be required to proceed
with payment.
7 The Application process
7.1 Documentation & Contacts
The call documents can be found on the UP-RISE website (https://www.uprisefoodsafety.org/), and consist of
the terms of the call (this document) and the questionnaire.
In case a potential applicant would have any questions related to the application process or would require
support to fill in the questionnaires, we invite them to reach out to the following contacts in each country
respectively.
Country Contact details (please send to all addresses indicated for your country)
All countries UP-RISE@ugent.be
Benin Laboratoire de Sciences et Technologies des Aliments (lasta.ensta@uac.bj)
and Yann Madode (yann.madode@icloud.com) and UP-RISE@ugent.be
Ivory Coast Kra Brou Didier Kedjebo (kedjebos@yahoo.fr)
and Ama Lethicia Manizan (manizanlethicia@yahoo.fr) and UP-RISE@ugent.be
Nigeria Huissaini Makun (hussaini.makun@futminna.edu.ng) and UP-RISE@ugent.be
Kenya Sheila Okoth (sheilaokoth@uonbi.ac.ke) and UP-RISE@ugent.be
South Africa Patrick Njobeh (pnjobeh@uj.ac.za )
and Bhekisisa Dlamini (bcdlamini@uj.ac.za) and UP-RISE@ugent.be
7.2 Submission process
The questionnaire is available on the UP-RISE website (https://www.uprisefoodsafety.org/). Processors (single
or group) are invited to apply by sending the completed questionnaire by e-mail to
UP-RISE@ugent.be and all e-mail contacts mentioned under 7.1, associated to your country of application.
Please indicate “Application to UP-RISE call + country” in the subject of your e-mail.
For practical reasons (access to internet, mastering of written English or French, etc.), we accept that applications
are submitted by a third party.
Please note that only one application per processor is allowed and only complete applications will be considered
admissible. Non-eligible and non-admissible applicants will not be considered.
Applications will be considered complete if the questionnaire is fully completed. Questionnaires completed by
computer are preferable, but handwritten and scanned version are also possible, please make sure they are
readable.
In the questionnaires, please ensure that you provide contact details that you monitor regularly. The contact
details will allow the UP-RISE project team (1) to contact applicants for further questions or requests for
additional information or documentation and (2) to organise in-depth interviews and/or on-site visits (see
Section 8, the Preselection phase).
The deadline for submitting an application to this call is the 6 December 2024 at 23:59 CET.
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Page 5 of 78 The Selection process
8.1 The Selection process
OPEN CALL FOR PROPOSALS
On 7 October 2024, the UP-RISE open call for fermented food processors will be launched in the five African
Union member states target of the UP-RISE project, namely Benin, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa.
The open call will be published in English and French through EU Funding & Tenders Portal, UP-RISE project
website and consortium partners websites.
To ensure the dissemination of the call, the UP-RISE project team will be invited to actively identify informal
market processors and invite them to apply, as well as notify of the launch of this call processors having taken
part in previous survey rounds.
The application period will span over a period of two months. The call will close on 6 December 2024 23:59 CET
PRESELECTION
The preselection will consist of assessing eligible and admissible applications received via e-mail until the
deadline. As a part of the preselection phase, the African universities partners of the UP-RISE project will conduct
in-depth interviews and, when necessary, on-site visits to assess that eligibility criteria are met and complement
assessment against award criteria. These assessments will be based on motivation, capacity and commitment to
collaborate and will ensure the right fit with the UP-RISE project objectives.
In-depth interviews will happen on a rolling basis. Therefore, we invite applicants to submit their application as
soon as it is ready.
For each processor, the preselection team (from each country) will make available an evaluation grid scoring
each processor against award criteria and its associated short report. Several processors per country will be
shortlisted.
FINAL SELECTION
After a number of applicants (around 6 per country) will have been preselected, the selection committee will
review the preselection report and evaluation grid presented (oral presentation, made in front of selection
committee, by each university responsible) for each shortlisted applicant. After evaluation, the selection
committee will select two processors in each target country ensuring best fit with the project objectives.
The selection committee will comprise members of several UP-RISE consortium partners: CIRAD, UGent, UoN,
UJ, UNA, FUTMIN, UAC, ADS Insights and WIA.
The final decision will be endorsed by the UP-RISE Scientific Board.
POST-SELECTION NOTIFICATIONS
Selected applicants will be notified of their selection by latest January 2025. Non-selected applicants will also
receive a notification and if possible, might receive feedback regarding why their proposal was not selected.
Contracts will be established for a duration of three years between selected applicants and the respective
responsible African university partner located in the same country as the operators. The contracts will include
the list of activities foreseen to be undertaken by the selected applicants, the financial compensation to which
the applicant will be eligible. The signature of the contract will engage the selected applicant to partake in the
activities for the duration of the project.
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Page 6 of 7Connected operators in the value chain will shortly (before end of January 2025) be identified to set up the
collaboration around 2 business case studies per country. Contracts will also be established with the connected
operators.
8.2 Summary Timeline
Phase Timeline
UP-RISE open call for proposal for fermented food processors From 7 October 2024 to 6
December 2024 23:59 CET
In-depth interviews, on-site visits and preselection phase From 7 October 2024 to
13 December 2024
Final selection & evaluation by the selection committee From 16 December 2024 to
20 December 2024
Notification of the results to the applicants 10 January 2025
Identification, selection (and notification) of connected operators to 31 January 2025
constitute 2 case studies per country.
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Page 7 of 7Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Page 1 of 7
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them.1 Titre de l’appel à candidatures
Appel à candidatures du projet UP-RISE pour des opérateurs spécialisés dans la fermentation de produits
alimentaires (akpan pour le Bénin, coco baca pour la Côte d'Ivoire, maziwa mala pour le Kenya, kunun zaki
pour le Nigéria, umqombothi pour l'Afrique du Sud).
2 Contexte de l’appel à candidatures
Dans la continuité de la stratégie africaine de sécurité sanitaire alimentaire, le projet UP-RISE a obtenu une
bourse du programme Horizon Europe. L'acronyme UP-RISE signifie Partenariat entre l'Union européenne (UE)
et l'Union africaine (UA) pour des systèmes alimentaires résilients, inclusifs et sains pour tous. UP-RISE participe
à la mise en œuvre des objectifs de développement durable de l'Agenda 2030 en favorisant le déploiement
d'activités de recherche et d'innovation menées de concert par l'UE et l'UA en vue d'éradiquer la faim, assurer la
sécurité sanitaire alimentaire, garantir une meilleure nutrition et promouvoir l'agriculture durable.
Le projet international UP-RISE vise à fournir des connaissances inédites afin de mieux comprendre et prévenir
la contamination des aliments par les mycotoxines et d'apporter des solutions pour renforcer les systèmes
africains de sécurité sanitaire alimentaire. Il relève le défi de la réduction des contaminants alimentaires, en
particulier des mycotoxines, pour une plus grande sécurité sanitaire et une diminution des maladies alimentaires.
Le projet se concentre sur cinq États membres de l'Union africaine, à savoir le Bénin, la Côte d'Ivoire, le Kenya,
le Nigeria et l'Afrique du Sud.
UP-RISE compte sur la participation active des parties prenantes locales pour mieux appréhender les difficultés
rencontrées par les entrepreneurs et renforcer la sécurité sanitaire des aliments. En particulier, la collaboration
avec les entrepreneurs permettra d’obtenir de nouvelles connaissances concernant la contamination par les
mycotoxines dans l’économie informelle, de mieux prévenir ces contaminations, d’améliorer les outils
d’évaluation des risques pour consolider les réglementations et législations existantes, et de développer des
innovations pour réduire la contamination par les mycotoxines dans les chaînes de valeur de produits
alimentaires fermentés destinés à la consommation domestique. Cela permettra d’envisager la mise en place de
systèmes alimentaires sûrs pour tous.
Ainsi, cet appel à candidatures vise à promouvoir la collaboration entre les chercheurs du projet UP-RISE et les
transformateurs de produits fermentés, connectés aux opérateurs des chaines de valeurs des filières concernées.
. Les opérateurs ciblés par cet appel à candidatures sont ceux menant des activités de fermentation des produits
alimentaires consommés localement; ils sont dénommés transformateurs dans la suite du document.
Pour plus d’informations merci de consulter le site internet du projet UP-RISE (disponible en anglais uniquement):
UP-RISE Food Safety (uprisefoodsafety.org)
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Page 2 of 7
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them.3 Objectifs de l’appel à candidature
Cet appel vise à sélectionner 10 transformateurs ou groupes de transformateurs qui travaillent sur la
fermentation de produits traditionnels dans des chaînes de valeur spécifiques d'aliments fermentés, à savoir
deux transformateurs d'akpan au Bénin, deux transformateurs de coca baca en Côte d'Ivoire, deux
transformateurs de maziwa mala au Kenya, deux transformateurs de kunun zaki au Nigéria et deux
transformateurs d'umqombothi en Afrique du Sud.
Les transformateurs ainsi que les opérateurs auxquels ils sont connectés dans les chaînes de valeur constitueront
les études de cas (2 par pays) du projet UP-RISE.
Les chercheurs du projet UP-RISE entendent collaborer avec et donc impliquer les transformateurs et les
opérateurs auxquels ils sont connectés dans les chaînes de valeur afin de faciliter l'échange de connaissances,
d'analyser l'activité existante et de proposer des améliorations afin d’obtenir des résultats en matière de sécurité
sanitaire des aliments . La collaboration s'étendra sur trois ans (de janvier 2025 à décembre 2027).
Cet appel à candidatures vise à faire participer les opérateurs aux activités suivantes:
- le partage des connaissances dans le domaine de la production ;
- la gestion de la logistique pour le prélèvement d'échantillons
- le partage des innovations du projet UP-RISE telles que de nouveaux protocoles de fermentation et
des bonnes pratiques de sécurité sanitaire des aliments;
- l'organisation de séminaires et de séances de recherche communautaire et participative ;
- l'ouverture des entreprises comme sites de démonstrations de production saine ;
- la mise en œuvre de mesures d'atténuation des mycotoxines.
Les transformateurs sélectionnés et les opérateurs auxquels ils sont connectés dans la chaîne de valeur seront
éligibles à une compensation financière pour le temps, les efforts et les investissements consentis pour
participer aux activités susmentionnées. Après avoir été sélectionnés, les acteurs (transformateurs sélectionnés
et opérateurs connectés) signeront un contrat de collaboration avec le projet UP-RISE incluant la compensation
financière à laquelle ils seront éligibles. Ce contrat comportera plus de détails sur les activités spécifiques
auxquelles ces tiers (acteurs des études de cas reliés dans les chaînes de valeur) sont tenus de participer. Cette
liste d'activités spécifiques variera en fonction de l'évaluation des besoins, des investissements prévus pour
améliorer la sécurité sanitaire des aliments et des exigences spécifiques du projet. En signant le contrat, les
transformateurs s'engageront à entreprendre les activités énumérées.
L'objectif principal étant de générer des connaissances nouvelles pour amplifier la portée du projet, cet appel
encourage les acteurs des chaînes de valeur à faire part aux chercheurs d’UP-RISE de leurs idées, connaissances
et perceptions de la situation.
4 Critères d’éligibilité
Les candidats doivent être des transformateurs de (i.e., des acteurs des chaînes de valeur dont l’activité est la
fermentation du produit alimentaire):
- akpan au Benin; ou
- coco baca en Côte d’Ivoire; ou
- maziwa mala au Kenya; ou
- kunun zaki au Nigeria; ou
- umqombothi en Afrique du Sud.
La collaboration est destinée à bénéficier à un individu, une petite exploitation, une PME ou un groupe de
transformateurs et aux opérateurs auxquels ils sont connectés dans les chaînes de valeur.
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Page 3 of 7Les candidatures ne répondant pas aux critères d'éligibilité susmentionnés seront rejetées.
5 Critères de sélection
L'équipe de présélection puis le comité de sélection évalueront les candidatures éligibles et admissibles en
fonction des critères de sélection définis dans la présente section. Les critères de sélection sont les suivants :
• Accessibilité géographique du site, qui facilitera la logistique pour le prélèvement d’échantillons, les
échanges réguliers avec les chercheurs d’UP-RISE ou encore les visites de sites ;
• Accessibilité et traçabilité des données : capacité à reconstituer la chaîne de valeur depuis les matières
premières jusqu'aux produits finis, connexion avec les opérateurs en amont et en aval de la chaîne de
valeur;
• Compétences entrepreneuriales : compétences de base en matière de gestion et d'organisation ;
• Compétences en matière de communication : communiquer clairement sur les aspects clés de
l'activité. Si possible, le candidat doit avoir une connaissance de l'anglais ou du français ;
• Motivation et disponibilité : volonté de collaborer, disposition au mentorat et implication durant la
période couverte par le projet ;
• Fiabilité et représentativité: les informations fournies par le candidat semblent réalistes et conformes
aux activités des autres opérateurs dans le domaine ;
• Genre: au moins la moitié des candidats sélectionnés sont des entreprises dirigées par des femmes ou
dont les activités quotidiennes sont menées principalement (51 %) par des femmes.
Une note de 1 à 4 sera attribuée à chaque critère à la suite de l'évaluation du dossier de candidature et
d'entretiens approfondis (voir section 8 « Présélection »).
Deux éléments additionnels pourront être pris en compte dans l’évaluation de candidats exceptionnels. Ces
éléments sont les suivants :
• Capacité générale d'innovation, innovation sociale et performance environnementale ;
• Perspectives de croissance de son marché, surtout en ce qui concerne les exportations potentielles vers
l'UE.
En soumettant sa candidature, le candidat s'engage à fournir des informations exactes.
6 Compensations financières
6.1. Fonds disponibles
Chaque université africaine partenaire du projet UP-RISE, à savoir l'Université d'Abomey-Calavi (UAC) au Bénin,
l'Université de Nangui Abrogoua (UNA) en Côte d'Ivoire, l'Université de Nairobi (UoN) au Kenya, l'Université
fédérale de technologie de Minna (FUTMIN) au Nigeria, et l'Université de Johannesburg (UJ) en Afrique du Sud,
sera respectivement responsable d'un financement d’un montant maximum de 100 000 EUR. Ce montant sera
consacré aux deux études de cas comprenant les transformateurs sélectionnés et les opérateurs auxquels ils sont
connectés dans les chaînes de valeur.
Chaque candidat sélectionné ainsi que les opérateurs connectés dans les chaînes de valeur pourront bénéficier
d'une compensation financière pour leurs activités dans le cadre du projet.
6.2. Coûts éligibles
Différentes activités, auxquelles les candidats participeront, seront éligibles à une compensation financière. Une
liste de ces activités figure à la section 3.
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Page 4 of 7Ces compensations seront plafonnées par opérateur sélectionné selon le tableau ci-dessous.
Montants Critères
1,000 à 5,000 EUR Participation de petites entreprises ou exploitations dans de longues chaînes de
valeur.
5,000 à 20,000 EUR PMEs ou groupe d’opérateurs prenant part à des activités de démonstration
d’innovations.
20,000 à 60,000 EUR PMEs or groupe d’opérateurs prenant part à l’achat d’équipements, mettant en
œuvre des processus innovant ou permettant la formation du personnel.
6.3. Conditions de paiement
Dans chaque pays, les paiements seront effectués par le partenaire universitaire africain responsable. Les
paiements seront effectués en espèces, par transfert via téléphone mobile ou sur un compte bancaire en un
minimum de deux versements directement aux tiers (tous les opérateurs sous contrat dans les chaînes de valeur).
La compensation financière à laquelle les opérateurs seront éligibles dans le cadre du projet UP-RISE sera
spécifiée dans le contrat établi entre le partenaire universitaire africain responsable et les opérateurs. Le
montant maximum de l'aide sera défini sur la base d'une évaluation des besoins et de la liste des activités
auxquelles les opérateurs participeront. Le contrat inclura un inventaire des dépenses prévues et les paiements
seront effectués en fonction des dépenses réalisées.
Des justificatifs de dépenses (achats et/ou temps passé à collaborer avec UP-RISE) seront exigés pour procéder
aux paiements.
7 Procédure de soumission de candidature
7.1. Documents et points de contact
Les documents pour cet appel à candidature sont publiés sur le site internet d’UP-RISE
(https://www.uprisefoodsafety.org/). Les documents disponibles sont les termes de référence de cet appel à
candidature (ce document) et le questionnaire.
Si un candidat souhaite poser des questions relatives à la procédure de candidature ou s'il a besoin d'aide pour
remplir le questionnaire, nous l'invitons à prendre contact avec les personnes suivantes dans chaque pays
respectivement.
Pays Contacts (merci d’envoyer à toutes les adresses électroniques mentionnées par pays)
Tous les pays UP-RISE@ugent.be
Benin Laboratoire de Sciences et Technologies des Aliments (lasta.ensta@uac.bj)
et Yann Madode (yann.madode@icloud.com)
Ivory Coast Kra Brou Didier Kedjebo (kedjebos@yahoo.fr)
et Ama Lethicia Manizan (manizanlethicia@yahoo.fr)
Nigeria Huissaini Makun (hussaini.makun@futminna.edu.ng)
Kenya Sheila Okoth (sheilaokoth@uonbi.ac.ke)
South Africa Patrick Njobeh (pnjobeh@uj.ac.za )
et Bhekisisa Dlamini (bcdlamini@uj.ac.za)
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Page 5 of 77.2. Procédure de soumission
Les transformateurs (particuliers ou groupes) sont invités à soumettre leur candidature en envoyant le
questionnaire dûment complété par courrier électronique à l'adresse suivante UP-RISE@ugent.be et à tous les
contacts e-mail mentionnés au point 7.1, associés à votre pays de candidature. Veuillez indiquer en objet de
votre courrier électronique « Candidature à l'appel UP-RISE + pays ».
Pour des raisons pratiques (accès à internet, maitrise de l’anglais ou du français à l’écrit, etc.), les soumissions
peuvent être faites par un tiers.
Veuillez noter qu'une seule candidature par transformateur est autorisée et que seules les candidatures
complètes seront considérées comme admissibles. Les candidatures non éligibles et non admissibles ne seront
pas prises en considération.
Les candidatures seront considérées comme complètes si le questionnaire est entièrement rempli. Les
questionnaires remplis par ordinateur sont préférables, mais les versions manuscrites et scannées sont
également acceptées ; merci de veiller à ce que celles-ci soient lisibles.
En remplissant le questionnaire, veillez à indiquer comme coordonnées, des moyens de communication que vous
utilisez régulièrement. Ces coordonnées permettront à l'équipe du projet UP-RISE (1) de contacter les candidats
pour leur poser des questions ou leur demander des informations ou documents supplémentaires et (2)
d'organiser des entretiens approfondis et/ou des visites sur place (voir la section 8, la phase de présélection).
La date limite pour soumettre une candidature est le 6 décembre 2024 à 23h59 CET.
8 La procédure de sélection
8.1. La procédure
L’APPEL A CANDIDATURES
Le 7 octobre 2024, l'appel à candidatures du projet UP-RISE pour des opérateurs spécialisés dans la fermentation
de produits alimentaires sera diffusé dans les cinq États membres de l'Union africaine ciblés par le projet, à savoir
le Bénin, la Côte d'Ivoire, le Kenya, le Nigéria et l'Afrique du Sud. Cet appel sera publié en anglais et en français
sur le portail des appels d'offres et des financements de l'UE (EU Funding & Tenders Portal), sur le site internet
du projet UP-RISE et sur les sites internet des partenaires du projet.
Pour assurer la dissémination de cet appel à candidatures, les chercheurs du projet UP-RISE seront chargés
d'identifier des transformateurs du marché informel et de les encourager à postuler. Ils seront également priés
de notifier les transformateurs ayant participé au cycle d'enquête précédent.
La période de candidature s'étendra sur une période de deux mois et sera clôturée le 6 décembre 2024 à 23:59
CET.
LA PRESELECTION
La présélection consistera à évaluer les candidatures éligibles et admissibles reçues par courrier électronique
jusqu'à la date limite. Dans le cadre de la phase de présélection, les universités africaines partenaires du projet
UP-RISE mèneront des entretiens approfondis et, si nécessaire, des visites sur site pour vérifier que les critères
d'éligibilité sont remplis et effectuer une évaluation complémentaire des critères de sélection. Ces évaluations
seront fondées sur la motivation, la capacité et la volonté de collaborer des candidats et garantiront leur
adéquation avec les objectifs du projet UP-RISE.
Les entretiens approfondis se dérouleront en continu. Par conséquent, nous invitons les candidats à soumettre
leur candidature dès le moment où elle est prête.
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Page 6 of 7L’équipe de présélection propre à chaque pays mettra à disposition du comité de sélection une grille
d’évaluation, relative aux critères de sélection, accompagnée d’un court rapport, remplis pour chaque
transformateur ayant soumis une candidature recevable. Plusieurs transformateurs par pays seront
présélectionnés.
LA SELECTION FINALE
Après la présélection d'un certain nombre de candidats (environ 6 par pays), le comité de sélection examinera le
rapport de présélection et la grille d'évaluation présentée (présentation orale, devant le comité de sélection, par
chaque université responsable) pour chaque candidat présélectionné. Après évaluation, le comité de sélection
choisira deux transformateurs dans chaque pays cible en veillant à ce qu'ils correspondent le mieux possible aux
objectifs du projet.
Le comité de sélection sera composé de membres de plusieurs partenaires du consortium UP-RISE : CIRAD,
UGent, UoN, UJ, UNA, FUTMIN, UAC, ADS Insights et WIA.
La décision finale sera endossée par le conseil scientifique d'UP-RISE.
LES RESULTATS
Les candidats sélectionnés seront informés de leur sélection avant fin janvier 2025. Les candidats non-
sélectionnés seront également notifiés, et, si possible, une justification leur sera apporté concernant les raisons
pour lesquelles leur candidature n'a pas été retenue.
Des contrats seront établis pour une durée de trois ans entre les candidats sélectionnés et le partenaire
universitaire africain responsable situé dans le même pays que les transformateurs. Les contrats comprendront
la liste des activités prévues à effectuer par les candidats sélectionnés et la compensation financière à laquelle
le candidat sera éligible. La signature du contrat engagera le candidat sélectionné à participer aux activités
pendant toute la durée du projet.
Les opérateurs connectés dans les chaînes de valeur seront rapidement identifiés (avant fin janvier 2025) pour
mettre en œuvre la collaboration autour de 2 études de cas par pays. Des contrats seront également établis avec
ces opérateurs.
8.2. Calendrier
Phase Timeline
Appel à candidatures du projet UP-RISE Du 7 octobre 2024 au 6
décembre 2024 à 23:59 CET
Entretiens approfondis, visites sur site et phase de présélection Du 7 octobre 2024 au
13 décembre 2024
Sélection finale & évaluation par le comité de sélection Du 16 décembre 2024 au
20 décembre 2024
Notification des résultats aux candidats 10 janvier 2025
Identification, sélection (et notification) des opérateurs connexes dans 31 janvier 2025
les chaîne de valeur pour constituer deux études de cas par pays.
Funded by the European Union. Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European
Union or the European Research Executive Agency (REA). Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. Page 7 of 7